Chapter 3 - Asset Management 
Information and information systems services constitute valuable government resources. The asset management chapter establishes the blueprint to identify the rules of 

acceptable use and the rules for protection: what assets to protect, who protects them and how much protection is adequate. 
 
To account for the assets that require protection, this chapter specifies the requirement to designate who owns assets. Designated owners become responsible for 

protecting information and technology assets and to maintain the way assets are protected. 
 
This chapter sets the foundation for a system that classifies information to identify different security levels, to specify how much protection is expected and how 

information should be handled at each level. Not all the information requires the same level of protection because only some information is sensitive or confidential. 
3.1 	Responsibility for assets 
3.1.1 
  	Inventory of assets 
	An inventory of all important assets associated with information systems must be documented and maintained. 
3.1.2 
  	Ownership of assets 
	Information Owners and Information Custodians must be designated for all assets associated with information systems. 
3.1.3 
  	Acceptable use of assets 
	Rules for the acceptable use of information systems must be identified, documented, and implemented. 
3.2 	Information Classification 
3.2.1 
  	Classification guidelines 
	The government information security classification system must take into account the value, sensitivity and intended use of the information. 
3.2.2 
  	Information labelling and handling 
	Information must be identified, labelled when appropriate and handled in accordance with the assigned information security classification. 
 	 
3.1 	Asset Management - Responsibility for assets 
3.1.1 	An inventory of all important assets associated with information systems must be documented and maintained. 
a) Identification of assets 
b)	Documenting and maintaining asset inventories 
c)	Loss, theft or misappropriation of assets 
Purpose: 	To identify and manage information and information technology assets associated with information systems or services (“assets”) to provide control and 

accountability, support strategic planning, enhance critical incident response, system planning, protection, maintenance and recovery. 
3.1.1.
a) Identification of assets  
Information Owners and Information Custodians must identify assets under their control including:  
• 	Software; 
•	Hardware; 
•	Services including computer and communications services, and general utilities; 
•	Information assets required to be inventoried in the personal information directory (required under the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act); 

and, 
•	All other information assets including: database and data files, contracts and agreements, system documentation, research information, user manuals, training 

material, operational or support procedures, continuity plans, fallback arrangements, archived information. 
3.1.1 b) Documenting and maintaining asset inventories 
Information Owners and Information Custodians must document, maintain and verify asset inventories on a regular basis, depending on the criticality and value of the 

assets, and validate the measures taken to protect the assets as part of an enterprise risk management strategy. 
 
Information Owners and Information Custodians must document, maintain and verify the personal information directory including the personal information bank and privacy 

impact assessment sections. 
 
The following information should be recorded to facilitate system planning and asset recovery in the case of interruption, corruption, loss or destruction: 
•	Type of asset; 
•	Ownership; 
•	Format; 
•	Location; 
•	Back-up information and location; 
•	License information; 
•	Sensitivity and safeguards requirements; 
•	Criticality for service delivery and maintaining business functions; • 	Consequences of loss. 
 
Information Owners and Information Custodians are accountable for asset identification and inventory maintenance. 
 
3.1.1 c) Loss, theft or misappropriation of assets. 
The loss, theft or misappropriation of assets must be reported immediately using the General Incident or Loss Report. Where the loss, theft or misappropriation 

involves information the Information Incident Management Process must be followed. 
Standards: 
Information Incident Management Process 
Metrics and Enforcement: 
•	Is there a formal process in place for maintaining asset inventory? 
•	Are inventory audits conducted periodically (e.g., every 2 years)? 
•	Is the Personal Information Directory up-to-date? 
•	Are information incidents and loss of assets reported immediately? 
Other References: 
ISP 3.2.1 - Classification guidelines 
ISP 2.1.3 - Responsibilities for protection of assets 
ISP 5.2.5 -Security of equipment off-premises 
ISP 9.1.1 - Information Security Incident Management 
ISP 11.1.2 - Intellectual Property Rights 
CPPM 8.3.2 - Asset Management, Tangible Capital Assets and Other Assets 
CPPM 12.3.3 - Information Management and Information Technology Management, Information Management 
CPPM 20 - Loss Management  
CPPM L - Loss Reporting 
Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act 
 
3.1.2 	Information Owners and Information Custodians must be designated for all assets associated with information systems. 
a)	Responsibilities for asset ownership. 
b)	Designating Information Custodians. 
Purpose: 	To designate custodians for assets with approved management responsibility for the protection of organizational assets associated with information and 

technology systems or services. 
3.1.2 a) Responsibilities for asset ownership  
An Information Owner is responsible for controlling the production, development, maintenance, use and security of information and technology assets within their 

jurisdiction. Information Owners are responsible for: 
•	Ensuring the appropriate classification and safeguarding of information and technology systems or services; 
•	Defining and regularly reviewing access restrictions, classifications and safeguards in accordance with applicable policies
•	Designating Information Custodians and ensuring that they have the correct tools for protecting designated assets. 
3.1.2 b) Designating Information Custodians  
Information Owners may delegate responsibility for custody of information and technology systems or services to Information Custodians. 
 
Information Custodians will be responsible for: 
•	Overseeing the functioning of information and technology assets; 
• 	Delivery of services in accordance with defined service requirements;  
• 	Regular reporting on designated information and technology assets. 
Guidelines: 
Ownership and custodianship responsibilities should be defined and monitored within the MyPerformance Plan. 
Metrics and Enforcement: 
•	Are the responsibilities for asset ownership and custodianship documented (e.g., in employee My Performance plan and/or job description)? 
•	Is there a regular reporting on information and technology assets by Information Custodians to Information Owners? 
Other References: 
ISP 2.2.3 - Addressing security in external party agreements 
ISP 3.1.1 - Inventory of assets 
ISP 3.2.1 - Classification Guidelines 
CPPM 12 - Information Management and Information Technology Management Working Outside the Workplace 
 
3.1.3 	Rules for the acceptable use of information systems must be identified, documented and implemented. 
a) Acceptable use of government resources 
Purpose: 	To prevent misuse or compromise of government information systems. 
3.1.3 a) Acceptable use of government resources 
All users of government’s information systems must take responsibility for, and accept the duty to actively protect government’s information and technology assets.  
 
The requirements for personal use of government information systems are described in Core Policy and Procedures Manual 12.3.1 - Appropriate Use of Government 

Resources. 
Metrics and Enforcement: 
	• 	Is there a mechanism in place for ensuring employee awareness of the appropriate use policies? 
Other References: 
ISP 4.2.2 - Information security awareness, education and training 
ISP 6.10.2 - Monitoring system use 
ISP 11.1.5 - Prevention of misuse of information processing facilities 
ISP 11.2.1 - Compliance with security policy and standards 
CPPM 12.3.1 - Information Management and Information Technology Management, Appropriate Use of Government Resources 
 
3.2 	Asset Management - Information classification 
3.2.1 	The government information security classification system must take into account the value, sensitivity and intended use of the information. 
a)	Information and information system security classification 
b)	Mandatory features of information security classification 
c)	Mandatory features of information system security classification 
Purpose: To define the information security classification system characteristics for information and information systems. 
3.2.1 a) Information and information system security classification 
Information Owners and Information Custodians must use the Information Security Classification system to categorize information and information systems.  
 
The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer is responsible for definition, application and enforcement of the Information and Information System Security 

Classification system.  
 
Risk Management Branch and Government Security Office is responsible for definition of Security Categories. 
3.2.1 b) Mandatory features of information security classification 
The Information Security Classification system must: 
•	Apply to information types rather than discrete data elements; 
•	Determine the relative value of information including factors such as: 
•	Statutory or regulatory requirements, o Impact to health, life or personal safety, o Impact on other information or information systems, 
• 	Economic impact from loss of information, o Effects of data aggregation, o Cost to create or replace the information, 
•	Impact to the Ministry service plan from loss of information confidentiality, integrity and availability,  
•	Changes to information sensitivity over time; 
•	Designate a default category to be used in the absence of explicit categorization;   
•	Maintain compatibility with the Administrative Records Classification System and Operational Records Classification System. 
 
The Information Security Classification system must include processes for: 
•	Defining information types for categorization; 
•	Making decisions on categorization of information 
•	Periodic reassessment of the information security categorization processes. 
3.2.1 c) Mandatory features of information system security classification 
The Information System Security Classification system must include processes for: 
•	Categorization of information systems based on the security classification of information stored, handled or processed by the information system; 
•	Inclusion of information and system security classification documentation in the System Security Plan. 
Standards:  
Information Security Classification Standard 
Information Security Classification Framework 
Information Security Threat and Risk Assessment Standard 
Administrative Records Classification System Operational Records Classification System 
Guidelines: 
The Information Security Classification system is a cornerstone of security and risk assessment activities. The security categories communicate the value and 

classification of information in a way that allows for decisions to be made about risk management and information handling. 
 
For example, Information Security Classifications assist in: 
•	Consistent, comparable Statement of Sensitivity descriptions of the Security Threat and Risk Assessment describing the confidentiality, integrity and 

availability requirements of the assessed system. 
•	The selection of system security controls: Service providers can bundle system security controls into packages or service offerings based on the consistently 

defined protection requirements of the information. 
•	The selection of, and consistent application of, information handling and labeling rules. 
•	Information sharing agreements by indicating the relative value of information being exchanged in a consistent and comparable manner across government. 
Metrics and Enforcement: 
•	Is there a process to ensure the Information Security Classification System is being used? 
•	Is the Information Security Classification part of the System Security Plan? 
•	Is the Information Security Classification reflected in STRAs? 
Other References: 
ISP 5 - Physical and environmental security 
ISP 6 - Communications and operations management 
ISP 7 - Access control 
ISP 8 - Information systems acquisition, development and maintenance 
ISP 9 - Information security incident management 
ISP 10 - Business continuity management 
ISP 11 - Compliance 
CPPM 15.3 - Security, Policy 
 
3.2.2 	Information must be identified, labelled when appropriate and handled in accordance with the assigned information security classification. 
a) Information labelling procedures 
b) Information handling procedures 
Purpose: 	To protect information in accordance with its security classification. 
3.2.2 a) Information labelling procedures 
Information Owners and Information Custodians must document procedures to label information with its information security classification as required by the government 

Information Security Classification system. Information labelling communicates the security classification and protection requirements to information users. 
 
Information types that must be considered for labelling include: printed or electronic records, reports, files, on-screen displays or messages. Information Owners must 

select and document the appropriate label type for each information type. 
 
Automatic information labelling must be used where possible (e.g., by use of document templates, standard report footers, printer watermarks, on-screen displays, 

system-applied text). 
 
Where direct information labelling is not possible, alternate methods must be used to communicate the information security classification, such as: marking storage 

media; description in information sharing agreements or system interface specifications; or, use of metadata. 
3.2.2 b) Information handling procedures 
Information Owners and Information Custodians must document information handling procedures for the secure processing, storage, transmission, declassification and 

destruction. 
 
Information protection procedures must take into account the information security classification, labelling and handling processes and the access control policies. 
 
Procedures must be defined for interpreting information classification labels from, and handling information exchanged with, other jurisdictions. 
Standards: 
Information Security Classification Standard Information Security Classification Framework 
Guidelines: 
During systems development, specify labelling requirements when defining business requirements for reports, screens and data storage. 
Metrics and Enforcement: 
•	Is there a mechanism to ensure the correct labels are applied and used with information classification? 
•	Are labelling requirements defined as part of business requirements for system development? 
 
Other References: 
ISP 3.2 - Classification guidelines 
ISP 5 - Physical and environmental security 
ISP 6 - Communications and operations management 
ISP 7 - Access control 
ISP 8 - Information systems acquisition, development and maintenance 
ISP 9 - Information security incident management 
ISP 10 - Business continuity management 
ISP 11 - Compliance 