The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer is responsible for establishing, issuing and monitoring information security policies.
The information security policy must be reviewed on an annual basis and updated when required.
Management must set direction and provide support for information security.
Implementation of information security activities across government must be coordinated by the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer.
Information security responsibilities must be documented.
Establishment of new information systems and processing facilities requires formal management authorization.
A confidentiality agreement reflecting organizational requirements for the handling of information must be in place and reviewed regularly.
Appropriate contacts shall be maintained with local law enforcement authorities, emergency support staff and service providers.
Appropriate contacts shall be maintained with specialist security forums and professional associations.
Independent reviews of information security must be regularly conducted.
Assessment of risks from external party access to government information, information systems or information processing facilities shall be undertaken and appropriate security controls implemented.
Identified security requirements must be addressed prior to granting external parties access to information, information systems or information processing facilities.
Arrangements involving external party access to information, information systems or information processing facilities must be based on a formal contract containing necessary security requirements.	
All users must be issued a unique identifier for their use only and an approved authentication technique must be used to substantiate the identity of the user.
An inventory of all important assets associated with information systems must be documented and maintained.
Information Owners and Information Custodians must be designated for all assets associated with information systems.
Rules for the acceptable use of information systems must be identified, documented, and implemented.
The government information security classification system must take into account the value, sensitivity and intended use of the information.
Information must be identified, labelled when appropriate and handled in accordance with the assigned information security classification.
Security roles and responsibilities for personnel must be documented.
Personnel screening must be performed prior to entering a working relationship with the Province.
The terms and conditions of employment must document the responsibility of personnel for information and information systems security.
Management must ensure personnel comply with security policies and procedures.
Personnel must receive appropriate information security training and be informed of changes to information security policy and practices.
Security breaches or policy violations caused by personnel must be reviewed by Management.
Responsibilities for employment termination must be documented.
Personnel must return government assets upon termination or change of employment.
The access rights of personnel to information systems must be removed upon termination of employment and reviewed upon change of employment.