Chapter 1 - Section null - The Information Security Policy establishes requirements to ensure that information security policies remain current as business needs evolve and technology changes.
Chapter 1 - Section null - This policy must be published and communicated to employees and relevant external parties.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 a) - The Information Security Policy contains operational policies, standards, guidelines and metrics intended to establish minimum requirements for the secure delivery of  government services.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 a) - Secure service delivery requires the assurance of confidentiality, integrity, availability and privacy of government information assets through management and business processes that include and enable security processes.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 a) - Secure service delivery requires the assurance of confidentiality, integrity, availability and privacy of government information assets through ongoing personnel awareness of security issues.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 a) - Secure service delivery requires the assurance of confidentiality, integrity, availability and privacy of government information assets through physical security requirements for information systems.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 a) - Secure service delivery requires the assurance of confidentiality, integrity, availability and privacy of government information assets through governance processes for information technology.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 a) - Secure service delivery requires the assurance of confidentiality, integrity, availability and privacy of government information assets through reporting information security events and weaknesses.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 a) - Secure service delivery requires the assurance of confidentiality, integrity, availability and privacy of government information assets through creating and maintaining business continuity plans.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 a) - Secure service delivery requires the assurance of confidentiality, integrity, availability and privacy of government information assets through monitoring for compliance.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 a) - The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer recognizes that information security is a process, which to be effective, requires management commitment, the  active participation of all personnel and ongoing awareness programs.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 a) - The process for developing and maintaining policy is outlined in CIO Policy Development -  Governance and Procedures (under review).
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 b) - Ministries may develop and implement additional information security policies, standards and guidelines for use within their organization or for a specific information  system or program.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 b) - Ministry developed information security policies, standards and guidelines can exceed but must not conflict with the baseline established by the  Information Security Policy.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 b) - Ministries must provide the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer with copies of any locally developed information security policies, standards or  guidelines.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 b) - A central repository must be maintained by the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer for the collection and re-use of Ministry developed information  security policies, standards or guidelines.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 b) - Where standards exist, they are included in individual policies.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 b) - The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer will issue and revise government standards as  needed.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.1 b) - Guidelines are included in individual policies to assist in interpretation and implementation.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 a) - The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer is responsible for reviewing information security policies, standards and guidelines on an annual basis.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 a) - Policies and standards review must be initiated in conjunction with legislative, regulatory or policy changes which have information management implications.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 a) - Policies and standards review must be initiated during planning and implementation of new or significantly changed technology.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 a) - Policies and standards review must be initiated following a Security Threat and Risk Assessment of major initiatives (e.g., new information systems or contracting arrangements).
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 a) - Policies and standards review must be initiated when audit reports or security risk and controls reviews identify high risk exposures involving information systems.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 a) - Policies and standards review must be initiated if threat or vulnerability trends produced from automated monitoring processes indicate the probability of significantly increased risk.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 a) - Policies and standards review must be initiated after receiving the final report of investigation into information security incidents.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 a) - Policies and standards review must be initiated prior to renewing third party access agreements which involve major government programs or services.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 a) - Policies and standards review must be initiated when industry, national or international standards for information security are introduced or significantly revised to address emerging business and technology  issues.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 a) - Policies and standards review must be initiated identify emerging trends related to information security.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 b) - Where ministries have developed ministry specific information security policies, standards and guidelines they must review them annually.
Chapter 1 - Section 1.1.2 b) - Where ministries have developed ministry specific information security policies, standards and guidelines they must provide the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer with copies of updated documents.
Chapter 2 - Section null - The protection of information assets requires a multi-disciplinary approach that is supported by the government’s information security organization.
Chapter 2 - Section null - This chapter  describes the management structure needed to coordinate information security activities including required information security activities, who coordinates them and  what agreements are required.
Chapter 2 - Section null - This coordination applies to internal organizations and to external parties accessing or managing the organization’s information assets.
Chapter 2 - Section null - The information security organization requires the support of a network of contacts in the information security community to elicit advice, trends and to deal with  other external factors.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 a) - The Information Security Program provides the security infrastructure necessary to protect government information assets by establishing an information security architecture for standard security controls across government.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 a) - The Information Security Program provides the security infrastructure necessary to protect government information assets by defining organizational roles and responsibilities for information security.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 a) - The Information Security Program provides the security infrastructure necessary to protect government information assets by developing and reviewing the Information Security Policy.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 a) - The Information Security Program provides the security infrastructure necessary to protect government information assets by monitoring and measuring the implementation of the Information Security Policy• Developing and delivering a program to maintain information security  awareness.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by providing leadership on methodologies and processes for information security.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by establishing a cross ministry information security forum.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by identifying security controls required to enable government service delivery and documenting those controls in the Information Security Policy, standards and  guidelines.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by providing security-related technical architecture advice to planning and development groups.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by promoting information security education, training and awareness throughout government.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by identifying significant threat changes and exposures to threats of assets associated with information security.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by ensuring the Information Incident Management Process is followed for all suspected or actual information incidents.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by evaluating information received during and after an information security incident.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by implementing performance measurement processes for security controls.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by ensuring information security activities are in compliance with the Information Security Policy.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by identifying responses to remediate activities that are not in compliance with policies, standards or best practices.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by co-ordinating the implementation of information security controls.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by recommending appropriate actions in response to identified information security incidents and initiating audits where necessary.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish an Information Security Program to manage and coordinate information security activities across government by building relationships with stakeholder and partner organizations including suppliers, other provincial security incident response centres and national  incident response centres to assist in maintaining the Information Security Program.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 c) - Information security specialists in the Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, are responsible for interpreting the Information Security Policy to assist in the delivery of business functions.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 c) - Information security specialists in the Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, are responsible for evaluating information security implications of new government initiatives.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 c) - Information security specialists in the Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, are responsible for performing information system security risk analysis activities.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 c) - Information security specialists in the Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, are responsible for performing information security assessments and reviews.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 c) - Information security specialists in the Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, are responsible for evaluating new threats and vulnerabilities.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 c) - Information security specialists in the Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, are responsible for investigating major information security incidents.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 c) - Information security specialists in the Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, are responsible for advising on the information security requirements for documented agreements.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 c) - Information security specialists in the Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, are responsible for identifying general business trends and emerging technologies, and recommending changes to Information Security Program.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 c) - Information security specialists in the Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, are responsible for analyzing and providing advice on emerging information security standards.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 c) - Information security specialists in the Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, are responsible for providing information security advice for business areas.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 d) - The responsibilities of the Ministry Chief Information Officer are defined in the Core Policy Chapter 12.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 d) - In addition to these responsibilities, the Ministry Chief  Information Officer is responsible for being the single point of contact for information incidents within their ministry.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 d) - In addition to these responsibilities, the Ministry Chief  Information Officer is responsible for is a member of cross-ministry IM/IT forums.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 d) - In addition to these responsibilities, the Ministry Chief  Information Officer is responsible for ensuring that the Information Incident Management Process is followed for all actual or suspected information incidents.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 d) - In addition to these responsibilities, the Ministry Chief  Information Officer is responsible for ensures information security reviews and audits are supported by the ministry.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 e) - The Ministry Information Security Officer is responsible for ensuring that standards/procedures to support day-to-day security activities are documented in compliance with the Information Security Policy.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 e) - The Ministry Information Security Officer is responsible for co-ordinating information security awareness and education.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 e) - The Ministry Information Security Officer is responsible for investigating reported information security events to determine if further investigation is warranted.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 e) - The Ministry Information Security Officer is responsible for providing up-to-date information on issues related to information security.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 e) - The Ministry Information Security Officer is responsible for assisting business areas in conducting Security Threat and Risk Assessments.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 e) - The Ministry Information Security Officer is responsible for ensuring that each information system has a current System Security Plan.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 e) - The Ministry Information Security Officer is responsible for providing advice on security requirements for information systems development or enhancements.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 e) - The Ministry Information Security Officer is responsible for co-ordinating ministry information security initiatives with cross-government information security initiatives.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 e) - The Ministry Information Security Officer is responsible for providing advice on emerging information security standards relating to ministry specific lines of business.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.1 e) - The Ministry Information Security Officer is responsible for raising ministry security issues to the cross-government information security forum.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.2 - Implementation of information security activities across government must be coordinated by the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.2 - The doer of this section should ensure that information security activities are carried out in a timely manner and that security issues are resolved.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.2 a) - A cross-government information security forum will provide advice and recommendations for developing and implementing information security policies, standards and guidelines.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.2 a) - A cross-government information security forum will provide advice and recommendations for promoting the consistent application of information security programs.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.2 a) - A cross-government information security forum will provide advice and recommendations for identifying issues related to information security disciplines and critical information asset protection.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.2 a) - A cross-government information security forum will provide advice and recommendations for identifying, assessing and managing information security risks.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.2 a) - A cross-government information security forum will provide advice and recommendations for conducting Security Threat and Risk Assessments of high profile initiatives.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.2 b) - Each ministry should establish a Ministry Information Security Committee to co-ordinate its security activities by determining the information security priorities and requirements of the ministry.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.2 b) - Each ministry should establish a Ministry Information Security Committee to co-ordinate its security activities by ensuring standards, procedures and processes are developed, documented and implemented to support day-to-day information security activities in compliance with  policy.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.2 b) - Each ministry should establish a Ministry Information Security Committee to co-ordinate its security activities by promoting information security awareness and education.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.2 b) - Each ministry should establish a Ministry Information Security Committee to co-ordinate its security activities by communicating priorities and issues to the cross-government information security forum.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 a) - Responsibility for security throughout government includes defining the Information Owner and Information Custodian responsible for information and information systems.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 a) - Responsibility for security throughout government includes defining the assets and security processes.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 a) - Responsibility for security throughout government includes defining authorization levels for access.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Within the Government of British Columbia, information ownership flows from the Crown to government Ministers to Deputy Ministers (or equivalent).
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Information  ownership may be further delegated by the Deputy Minister.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Information Owners have the responsibility and decision making authority for information throughout its life cycle, including creating, classifying, restricting,  regulating and administering its use or disclosure and will determine business requirements including information security needs.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Information Owners have the responsibility and decision making authority for information throughout its life cycle, including creating, classifying, restricting,  regulating and administering its use or disclosure and will ensure information and information systems are protected commensurate with their information classification and value.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Information Owners have the responsibility and decision making authority for information throughout its life cycle, including creating, classifying, restricting,  regulating and administering its use or disclosure and will define security requirements during the planning stage of any new or significantly changed information system.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Information Owners have the responsibility and decision making authority for information throughout its life cycle, including creating, classifying, restricting,  regulating and administering its use or disclosure and will determine authorization requirements for access to information and information systems.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Information Owners have the responsibility and decision making authority for information throughout its life cycle, including creating, classifying, restricting,  regulating and administering its use or disclosure and will approve access privileges for each user or set of users.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Information Owners have the responsibility and decision making authority for information throughout its life cycle, including creating, classifying, restricting,  regulating and administering its use or disclosure and will document information exchange agreements.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Information Owners have the responsibility and decision making authority for information throughout its life cycle, including creating, classifying, restricting,  regulating and administering its use or disclosure and will develop service level agreements for information systems under their custody or control.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Information Owners have the responsibility and decision making authority for information throughout its life cycle, including creating, classifying, restricting,  regulating and administering its use or disclosure and will implement processes to ensure users are aware of their security responsibilities.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Information Owners have the responsibility and decision making authority for information throughout its life cycle, including creating, classifying, restricting,  regulating and administering its use or disclosure and will monitor that users are fulfilling their security responsibilities.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 b) - Information Owners have the responsibility and decision making authority for information throughout its life cycle, including creating, classifying, restricting,  regulating and administering its use or disclosure and will be involved with security reviews and/or audits.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 c) - Information Custodians maintain or administer information assets on behalf of the Information Owners by providing and managing security for the information asset throughout its lifecycle.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 c) - Information Custodians maintain or administer information assets on behalf of the Information Owners by maintaining and operating the technical infrastructure that information and information systems reside on.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.3 c) - Information Custodians maintain or administer information assets on behalf of the Information Owners by maintaining and operating the security infrastructure protecting information and information systems.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 a) - Prior to constructing any new information processing facilities, Information Owners and Information Custodians must conduct a Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 a) - Prior to constructing any new information processing facilities, Information Owners and Information Custodians must address security requirements in the construction of the facility.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 a) - Prior to constructing any new information processing facilities, Information Owners and Information Custodians must conduct a risk and controls review to determine if controls are adequate to mitigate business risks prior to implementation of the information processing  facility.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 a) - Prior to constructing any new information processing facilities, Information Owners and Information Custodians must obtain advice from the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer to ensure adherence to relevant policies, procedures, standards and guidelines.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians of a new or significantly modified information system must conduct a Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians of a new or significantly modified information system must address security requirements in the development of the system.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians of a new or significantly modified information system must conduct a risk and controls review to determine if controls are adequate to mitigate business risks prior to implementation of the information system.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians of a new or significantly modified information system must ensure new and significantly changed information systems undergo certification and accreditation.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians of a new or significantly modified information system must obtain approval from the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer to ensure adherence to relevant Core Policy and Procedure and Information Security  Policy.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 c) - Prior to acquisition of new hardware, firmware or software, Information Owners and Information Custodians must consult with the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer to evaluate compatibility with existing information systems hardware, firmware and software.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 c) - Prior to acquisition of new hardware, firmware or software, Information Owners and Information Custodians must consult with the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer to ensure new hardware, firmware and software conform to the Information Security Policy, standards and guidelines.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 c) - Prior to acquisition of new hardware, firmware or software, Information Owners and Information Custodians must consult with the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer to consider the reliability of the product as part of the procurement selection process.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 c) - Prior to acquisition of new hardware, firmware or software, Information Owners and Information Custodians must consult with the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer to evaluate the need for any additional security measures and the impact on existing security processes.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 d) - Personnel must not store government information on non-government hardware unless authorized.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.4 d) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must test non-government hardware for vulnerabilities prior to connecting it to the government network.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure employees are informed of their obligation to maintain the confidentiality of information.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure individuals other than employees accept and sign an agreement to maintain the confidentiality of information.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.5 a) - Confidentiality requirements must be reviewed and updated annually.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.6 - Appropriate contacts shall be maintained with local law enforcement authorities, emergency support staff and service providers.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.6 - The doer of this section should facilitate timely response from and coordination with outside authorities during information security incidents or investigations.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.6 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must ensure that outside authorities, emergency support staff and service providers can be contacted by maintaining and distributing as appropriate, a list of internal and external organizations and service providers.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.6 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must ensure that outside authorities, emergency support staff and service providers can be contacted by documenting emergency and non-emergency procedures for contacting authorities as required during information security incidents or investigations.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.7 a) - Personnel with information security responsibilities must maintain their knowledge of information security industry trends, best practices, new technologies and  threats or vulnerabilities by participating in information exchange forums regarding best practices, industry standards development, new technologies, threats, vulnerabilities, early notice  of potential attacks, and advisories.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.7 a) - Personnel with information security responsibilities must maintain their knowledge of information security industry trends, best practices, new technologies and  threats or vulnerabilities by maintaining and improving knowledge regarding information security best practices.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.7 a) - Personnel with information security responsibilities must maintain their knowledge of information security industry trends, best practices, new technologies and  threats or vulnerabilities by creating a support network of other security specialists.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.7 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must promote professional certification, and membership in professional associations, for personnel with information security  responsibilities throughout government.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.8 - Independent reviews of information security must be regularly conducted.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.8 - The doer of this section should provide an assessment of the Information Security Program.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.8 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must initiate an independent review of the Information Security Program every two years including assessing the operational effectiveness of the Information Security Program.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.8 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must initiate an independent review of the Information Security Program every two years including documenting the results.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.8 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must initiate an independent review of the Information Security Program every two years including reporting the results of the review to senior management.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.8 a) - This review must be conducted by an independent third party.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.1.8 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must address the identified weaknesses and non-compliant controls prior to the next review.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 - Assessment of risks from external party access to government information, information systems or information processing facilities shall be undertaken and  appropriate security controls implemented.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 - The doer of this section should ensure the risks of external party access to information and information systems are identified, assessed, mitigated and managed.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for assessing the business requirements and associated risks related to external party access to  information and information systems.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 a) - Risk assessments must be documented during the conceptual design phase of a project and updated throughout the lifecycle of the information system (e.g., prior to and  following technical or business process changes to the information system).
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 a) - The assessment of risks related to external party access must consider if existing controls prevent external parties from accessing facilities or information that are not needed to meet the business requirements for the access,.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 a) - The assessment of risks related to external party access must consider impacts to the controls of the information processing facilities involved,.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 a) - The assessment of risks related to external party access must consider the classification of the information assets,.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 a) - The assessment of risks related to external party access must consider internal and external processes for managing and reporting security and privacy incidents,.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 a) - The assessment of risks related to external party access must consider processes for identifying, authorizing, authenticating and reviewing access rights of personnel and systems of the external party,.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 a) - The assessment of risks related to external party access must consider security controls to be used by the external party when storing, processing, communicating, sharing or exchanging information,.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 a) - The assessment of risks related to external party access must consider impacts to both parties resulting from assets being unavailable, and,.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 a) - The assessment of risks related to external party access must consider data integrity requirements including impacts of accessing or using inaccurate information.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 b) - Prior to authorizing access by external parties to information and information systems Information Owners and Information Custodians must confirm that a risk and controls review has been completed and identified risks have been mitigated or accepted.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.1 b) - Prior to authorizing access by external parties to information and information systems Information Owners and Information Custodians must confirm that the terms and conditions of access are documented (e.g.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.2 a) - Prior to granting access to non-public information and information systems for external parties Information Owners and Information Custodians must determine that mitigation strategies have been implemented to address security requirements.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.2 a) - Review the Security Threat and Risk Assessment for asset protection requirements including asset classification,.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.2 a) - Review the Security Threat and Risk Assessment for asset protection requirements including legislative, regulatory and policy considerations, and, o Intellectual property rights obligations.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.2 a) - Review the Security Threat and Risk Assessment for asset protection requirements including complete a Privacy Impact Assessment.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.2 a) - Review the Security Threat and Risk Assessment for asset protection requirements including determine that security controls will not adversely affect target service levels.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.2 a) - Review the Security Threat and Risk Assessment for asset protection requirements including document the roles and responsibilities of the Information Owner, Information Custodian and the external party in a formal agreement.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure access to information assets and information processing facilities by external parties is only provided after  an access agreement has been completed.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Access agreements must include roles and responsibilities of the Information Owner, Information Custodian and the external party.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Access agreements must include approved security controls.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Access agreements must include conditions for contract termination.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Access agreements must include audit and compliance monitoring rights, responsibilities and processes.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Access agreements must include reporting obligations for suspected or actual security and privacy incidents.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Access agreements must include renewal and extension conditions.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Access agreements must include requirements for regular compliance reviews.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Approved forms of agreement include general Service Agreement for purchase of goods or services.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Approved forms of agreement include agreements for Alternate Service Delivery or Public Private Partnership.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Approved forms of agreement include information Sharing Agreement; or,.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 a) - Approved forms of agreement include other forms of agreement as approved by Legal Services.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the security requirements of external party access agreements include notification of obligations of the parties to adhere to legislation and regulation.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the security requirements of external party access agreements include requirements to adhere to agreed information security policies and procedures.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the security requirements of external party access agreements include processes for amending the agreement.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the security requirements of external party access agreements include acknowledgement by the external party that ownership of information is retained by the Province.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the security requirements of external party access agreements include confidentiality obligations of the external party and their personnel or agents.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the security requirements of external party access agreements include requirements for use of unique user identifiers.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the security requirements of external party access agreements include processes for conducting audits and compliance monitoring activities.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the security requirements of external party access agreements include responsibilities and processes for reporting security and privacy incidents.
Chapter 2 - Section 2.2.3 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the security requirements of external party access agreements include assurances that disciplinary action will be applied to employees or contractors who fail to comply with the terms of the agreement.
Chapter 3 - Section null - Information and information systems services constitute valuable government resources.
Chapter 3 - Section null - The asset management chapter establishes the blueprint to identify the rules of  acceptable use and the rules for protection what assets to protect, who protects them and how much protection is adequate.
Chapter 3 - Section null - The doer of this section should account for the assets that require protection, this chapter specifies the requirement to designate who owns assets.
Chapter 3 - Section null - Designated owners become responsible for  protecting information and technology assets and to maintain the way assets are protected.
Chapter 3 - Section null - This chapter sets the foundation for a system that classifies information to identify different security levels, to specify how much protection is expected and how  information should be handled at each level.
Chapter 3 - Section null - Not all the information requires the same level of protection because only some information is sensitive or confidential.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document, maintain and verify asset inventories on a regular basis, depending on the criticality and value of the  assets, and validate the measures taken to protect the assets as part of an enterprise risk management strategy.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document, maintain and verify the personal information directory including the personal information bank and privacy  impact assessment sections.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - The following information should be recorded to facilitate system planning and asset recovery in the case of interruption, corruption, loss or destruction type of asset.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - The following information should be recorded to facilitate system planning and asset recovery in the case of interruption, corruption, loss or destruction ownership.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - The following information should be recorded to facilitate system planning and asset recovery in the case of interruption, corruption, loss or destruction format.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - The following information should be recorded to facilitate system planning and asset recovery in the case of interruption, corruption, loss or destruction location.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - The following information should be recorded to facilitate system planning and asset recovery in the case of interruption, corruption, loss or destruction back-up information and location.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - The following information should be recorded to facilitate system planning and asset recovery in the case of interruption, corruption, loss or destruction license information.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - The following information should be recorded to facilitate system planning and asset recovery in the case of interruption, corruption, loss or destruction sensitivity and safeguards requirements.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - The following information should be recorded to facilitate system planning and asset recovery in the case of interruption, corruption, loss or destruction criticality for service delivery and maintaining business functions.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - The following information should be recorded to facilitate system planning and asset recovery in the case of interruption, corruption, loss or destruction consequences of loss.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are accountable for asset identification and inventory maintenance.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 c) - The loss, theft or misappropriation of assets must be reported immediately using the General Incident or Loss Report.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.1 c) - Where the loss, theft or misappropriation  involves information the Information Incident Management Process must be followed.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.2 a) - An Information Owner is responsible for controlling the production, development, maintenance, use and security of information and technology assets within their  jurisdiction.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.2 a) - Information Owners are responsible for ensuring the appropriate classification and safeguarding of information and technology systems or services.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.2 a) - Information Owners are responsible for defining and regularly reviewing access restrictions, classifications and safeguards in accordance with applicable policies.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.2 a) - Information Owners are responsible for designating Information Custodians and ensuring that they have the correct tools for protecting designated assets.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.2 b) - Information Owners may delegate responsibility for custody of information and technology systems or services to Information Custodians.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.2 b) - Information Custodians will be responsible for overseeing the functioning of information and technology assets.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.2 b) - Information Custodians will be responsible for delivery of services in accordance with defined service requirements.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.2 b) - Information Custodians will be responsible for regular reporting on designated information and technology assets.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.2 b) - Ownership and custodianship responsibilities should be defined and monitored within the MyPerformance Plan.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.1.3 a) - All users of government’s information systems must take responsibility for, and accept the duty to actively protect government’s information and technology assets.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must use the Information Security Classification system to categorize information and information systems.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 a) - The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer is responsible for definition, application and enforcement of the Information and Information System Security  Classification system.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 a) - Risk Management Branch and Government Security Office is responsible for definition of Security Categories.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 b) - The Information Security Classification system must apply to information types rather than discrete data elements.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 b) - Determine the relative value of information including factors such as statutory or regulatory requirements, o Impact to health, life or personal safety, o Impact on other information or information systems,.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 b) - Determine the relative value of information including factors such as economic impact from loss of information, o Effects of data aggregation, o Cost to create or replace the information,.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 b) - Determine the relative value of information including factors such as impact to the Ministry service plan from loss of information confidentiality, integrity and availability,.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 b) - Determine the relative value of information including factors such as changes to information sensitivity over time.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 b) - Determine the relative value of information including factors such as designate a default category to be used in the absence of explicit categorization.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 b) - Determine the relative value of information including factors such as maintain compatibility with the Administrative Records Classification System and Operational Records Classification System.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 b) - The Information Security Classification system must include processes for defining information types for categorization.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 b) - The Information Security Classification system must include processes for making decisions on categorization of information.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 b) - The Information Security Classification system must include processes for periodic reassessment of the information security categorization processes.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 c) - The Information System Security Classification system must include processes for categorization of information systems based on the security classification of information stored, handled or processed by the information system.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 c) - The Information System Security Classification system must include processes for inclusion of information and system security classification documentation in the System Security Plan.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 c) - The Information Security Classification system is a cornerstone of security and risk assessment activities.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 c) - The security categories communicate the value and  classification of information in a way that allows for decisions to be made about risk management and information handling.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 c) - For example, Information Security Classifications assist in consistent, comparable Statement of Sensitivity descriptions of the Security Threat and Risk Assessment describing the confidentiality, integrity and  availability requirements of the assessed system.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.1 c) - defined protection requirements of the information.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document procedures to label information with its information security classification as required by the government  Information Security Classification system.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.2 a) - Information labelling communicates the security classification and protection requirements to information users.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.2 a) - Information types that must be considered for labelling include printed or electronic records, reports, files, on-screen displays or messages.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.2 a) - Information Owners must  select and document the appropriate label type for each information type.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.2 a) - Automatic information labelling must be used where possible (e.g., by use of document templates, standard report footers, printer watermarks, on-screen displays,  system-applied text).
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.2 a) - Where direct information labelling is not possible, alternate methods must be used to communicate the information security classification, such as marking storage  media; description in information sharing agreements or system interface specifications; or, use of metadata.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document information handling procedures for the secure processing, storage, transmission, declassification and  destruction.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.2 b) - Information protection procedures must take into account the information security classification, labelling and handling processes and the access control policies.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.2 b) - Procedures must be defined for interpreting information classification labels from, and handling information exchanged with, other jurisdictions.
Chapter 3 - Section 3.2.2 b) - During systems development, specify labelling requirements when defining business requirements for reports, screens and data storage.
Chapter 4 - Section null - This chapter identifies the information security requirements for personnel that have an employment relationship with government organizations.
Chapter 4 - Section null - The doer of this section should reduce information  security risks, the terms and conditions of employment must establish expectations for the protection of government assets, information and services.
Chapter 4 - Section null - This chapter references the terms and conditions set by the BC Public Service Agency for employees and identifies the conditions for external personnel such as  contractors.
Chapter 4 - Section null - Management and personnel have different security responsibilities and liabilities that apply prior, during, and at the time of termination of employment.
Chapter 4 - Section null - Prior to  employment, emphasis is on the awareness of the expected roles and responsibilities, the screening of prospects and the existence of agreements.
Chapter 4 - Section null - During employment,  policies establish management responsibilities, education, training and formal processes to handle problematic security situations.
Chapter 4 - Section null - This chapter also establishes rules  to ensure a secure transition when employment is ended or changed.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.1 - Security roles and responsibilities for personnel must be documented.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.1 - The doer of this section should ensure personnel are informed of their information security roles and responsibilities.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document information security roles and responsibilities for personnel in job descriptions, standing offers, contracts, and information use agreements.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must review and update information security roles and responsibilities when conducting staffing or contracting activities.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.1 b) - Managers must ensure personnel are informed of their security roles and responsibilities by establishing processes for communicating security roles and esponsibilities  to protect information system assets.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.2 a) - The process for employee screening is detailed in BC Public Service Agency Human Resource Polices, Security Screening.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.2 b) - The process for contractor screening is detailed in Core Policy and Procedures Manual 6 - Procurement.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.2 b) - The process for contractor screening can be used to screen other individuals such as volunteers.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.2 b) - Personnel should be screened to assess their education, skills, knowledge, experience, and past work performance.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.2 b) - The screening should also confirm the applicant’s  identity.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.2 b) - The extent of the screening process should be commensurate with the sensitivity of the information and nature of work to be performed.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.2 b) - Ministries may exempt personnel from the screening process where the sensitivity of the information and nature of work to be performed does not warrant a complete screening process.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.2 b) - Ministries should maintain a list of contractors and other individuals who have been screened.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.2 b) - The doer of this section should ensure consistency in the process and criteria, screening services should be provided as a shared service.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.3 a) - The terms and conditions of employment for employees are defined in the BC Public Service Agency, Human Resource Policies.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.3 b) - The terms and conditions of employment for personnel other than employees must include legal responsibilities and rights (e.g., laws relating to intellectual property rights, freedom of information, privacy).
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.3 b) - The terms and conditions of employment for personnel other than employees must include confidentiality requirements that include responsibilities for the handling and storage of information assets.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.3 b) - The terms and conditions of employment for personnel other than employees must include consequences of failing to adhere to the terms and conditions.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.3 c) - Managers must ensure terms and conditions of employment are agreed to by personnel prior to employment or provision of services.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.1.3 d) - Personnel in violation of the terms and conditions of employment are subject to disciplinary action including dismissal, cancellation of contract and/or other legal  remedies.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.1 - Management must ensure personnel comply with security policies and procedures.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.1 - The doer of this section should establish management responsibilities for ongoing support and implementation of information security.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.1 a) - Managers must support the implementation of information security policies and practices by ensuring personnel are informed of information security roles and responsibilities prior to being granted access to information or information systems.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.1 a) - Managers must support the implementation of information security policies and practices by supporting and encouraging personnel to adhere to information security policies.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.1 a) - Managers must support the implementation of information security policies and practices by requiring that personnel conform to the terms and conditions of employment, including information security policies.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.1 b) - Managers must annually review and validate security roles and responsibilities in job descriptions, standing offers, contracts and information use agreements and when staffing or restructuring public service or contract positions; or,.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.1 b) - Managers must annually review and validate security roles and responsibilities in job descriptions, standing offers, contracts and information use agreements and when implementing new, or significant changes to, information systems.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.2 a) - Managers must include an information security awareness component in orientation processes that personnel must complete prior to accessing information or information  systems.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.2 b) - Managers must provide ongoing information security awareness, education and training, addressing topics including protection of information.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.2 b) - Managers must provide ongoing information security awareness, education and training, addressing topics including known information security threats.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.2 b) - Managers must provide ongoing information security awareness, education and training, addressing topics including legal responsibilities.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.2 b) - Managers must provide ongoing information security awareness, education and training, addressing topics including information security policies and directives.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.2 b) - Managers must provide ongoing information security awareness, education and training, addressing topics including procedures for reporting information security events to the Ministry Information Security Officer.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.2 b) - Managers must provide ongoing information security awareness, education and training, addressing topics including appropriate use of government resources.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.2 b) - Managers must provide ongoing information security awareness, education and training, addressing topics including technology training.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.2 b) - Managers must provide ongoing information security awareness, education and training, addressing topics including information on disciplinary processes.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.2 b) - Managers must provide ongoing information security awareness, education and training, addressing topics including how to obtain security advice.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.2 b) - Managers must ensure the information security awareness training informs personnel of their responsibilities in relation to bC Public Service Agency Human Resource Policies - Standards of Conduct.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.3 a) - Upon receipt of information identifying personnel responsible for a security breach or policy violation, managers are responsible for ensuring the Ministry Chief Information Officer has been informed of the potential security breach or policy violation.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.3 a) - Upon receipt of information identifying personnel responsible for a security breach or policy violation, managers are responsible for assisting in an investigation and verifying the details of the security breach or policy violation.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.3 a) - Upon receipt of information identifying personnel responsible for a security breach or policy violation, managers are responsible for determining, in consultation with the BC Public Service Agency, if disciplinary action is warranted for employees.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.3 a) - Upon receipt of information identifying personnel responsible for a security breach or policy violation, managers are responsible for determining if disciplinary action is warranted for non-employees.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.2.3 a) - Upon receipt of information identifying personnel responsible for a security breach or policy violation, managers are responsible for arranging for permanent or temporary removal of access privileges when appropriate.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.1 a) - Managers must advise personnel of ongoing confidentiality responsibilities that continue to apply after termination of employment.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.1 a) - BC Public Service Agency to provide information security awareness, education and training programs that include information on personnel confidentiality requirements  that apply after termination of employment.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.2 a) - Managers must document the return of government assets in the possession of personnel upon termination of their employment using standard processes.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.2 a) - Return of o documents, files, data, books and manuals in physical or other media formats including other information assets developed or prepared by an employee or  contractor in the course of their duties, o computer hardware, software and equipment (e.g., mobile devices, portable media), and o access devices, cards, vouchers and keys (e.g., credit cards, taxi  cards, travel vouchers).
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.2 a) - Return of returned items are verified against established asset inventories.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.2 a) - Return of recovery or compensation for assets not returned, based on established criteria regarding depreciation and replacement value for classes of items.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.2 a) - Return of identification of unreturned access devices, cards and keys that could permit unauthorized access or alteration/destruction of assets, so that information  and/or security systems can be protected.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.2 a) - The following forms are available to initiate termination or change of employment processes for managing the return of assets assigned to personnel employee Separation Report form - BC Public Service Agency, Human Resource Forms.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 a) - Managers must review access to information systems and information processing facilities when personnel change employment, including when personnel assume new roles and responsibilities.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 a) - Managers must review access to information systems and information processing facilities when personnel change employment, including during restructuring of positional or organizational roles and responsibilities.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 a) - Managers must review access to information systems and information processing facilities when personnel change employment, including when personnel commence long-term leave.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 a) - Managers must review access to information systems and information processing facilities when personnel change employment, including updating directories, documentation and systems.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 b) - Managers must ensure access to information systems and information processing facilities is removed upon termination of employment or reviewed upon change of  employment by removing or modifying physical and logical access.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 b) - Managers must ensure access to information systems and information processing facilities is removed upon termination of employment or reviewed upon change of  employment by recovering or revoking access devices, cards and keys.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 b) - Managers must ensure access to information systems and information processing facilities is removed upon termination of employment or reviewed upon change of  employment by updating directories, documentation and systems.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 c) - Managers must ensure access to information systems and information processing facilities is reduced or removed before the employment terminates or changes, based upon  the evaluation of risk factors such as whether the termination or change is initiated by the employee/contactor or by management.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 c) - Managers must ensure access to information systems and information processing facilities is reduced or removed before the employment terminates or changes, based upon  the evaluation of risk factors such as the reason for termination.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 c) - Managers must ensure access to information systems and information processing facilities is reduced or removed before the employment terminates or changes, based upon  the evaluation of risk factors such as the current responsibilities of the employee/contractor.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 c) - Managers must ensure access to information systems and information processing facilities is reduced or removed before the employment terminates or changes, based upon  the evaluation of risk factors such as the value of the assets currently accessible.
Chapter 4 - Section 4.3.3 c) - The following forms are available to initiate termination or change of employment processes for managing access rights of personnel employee Separation Report form - BC Public Service Agency, Human Resource forms.
Chapter 5 - Section null - The following forms are available to initiate termination or change of employment processes for managing access rights of personnel this chapter identifies requirements for the protection from environmental and man-made threats to personnel and property in information processing facilities.
Chapter 5 - Section null - One of  the principles used for protection is the use of security zones to place computers, people and information in secure areas.
Chapter 5 - Section null - Safety measures for equipment installations  are also described.
Chapter 5 - Section null - Requirements for the installation, operation, protection and maintenance of computer equipment are identified to preserve the confidentiality, integrity and  availability of government information and information systems.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must establish the appropriate type and number of restricted zones to achieve the necessary conditions for personnel  safety, and for the protection of, sensitive or valuable information and assets.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 a) - Establishment of restricted zones must be supported by a Security Threat and Risk  Assessment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 a) - All information processing facilities are a Restricted Access Security Zone.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 a) - Appropriate security controls must be applied to reduce the level of identified risks and include a structure that prevents external visual and audio observations and complies with all local building codes for structural stability (external walls, internal  walls, ceilings and doors).
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 a) - Walls surrounding the facility must be extended from true floor to true ceiling (slab to slab), to prevent unauthorized entry and minimize  environmental contaminations such as that caused by fires and floods.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - Information Custodians must review, and where appropriate test, physical security and environmental control requirements annually.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - Security requirements for facilities must be evaluated prior to significant alteration to building layouts.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - Security requirements for facilities must be evaluated prior to significant change to equipment/systems located in the facility.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - Security requirements for facilities must be evaluated prior to significant change in operations.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - Security requirements for facilities must be evaluated prior to significant as part of any related security incident investigation.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - The following guidelines support physical and environmental security by establishing perimeter security for information processing facilities common service spaces such as eating areas, washrooms, cloakrooms, boardrooms and storage areas should be located so that they cannot be used to circumvent  physical security.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - The following guidelines support physical and environmental security by establishing perimeter security for information processing facilities visitor reception should be separate from entrance areas but provide an unobstructed view of the entrance.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - The following guidelines support physical and environmental security by establishing perimeter security for information processing facilities when physical security is outsourced, the contract must require that contracted personnel are security screened and bonded.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - The effective use of restricted access zones in an open office environment depends on the implementation of appropriate security procedures, which may include respecting the need-to-access principle and zone perimeters.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - The effective use of restricted access zones in an open office environment depends on the implementation of appropriate security procedures, which may include escorting visitors.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - The effective use of restricted access zones in an open office environment depends on the implementation of appropriate security procedures, which may include securing sensitive or valuable information and assets when leaving the work areas.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - The effective use of restricted access zones in an open office environment depends on the implementation of appropriate security procedures, which may include taking precautions when discussing sensitive information.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.1 b) - Physical security for information processing facilities is the responsibility of the Information Custodian.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.2 a) - Access to any government information processing facility or areas where sensitive information is kept must be restricted.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.2 a) - Entry controls must identify, authenticate  and monitor all access attempts to a Restricted Access Operations Zone or a Restricted Access Security Zone as follows all badges must be checked prior to entry.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.2 a) - A receptionist, security guard or electronic reader that logs the identity, time, date, and access privileges of each entry  attempt must do such checking.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.2 b) - Information Custodians are responsible for reviewing physical entry control requirements annually.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.2 b) - All entry controls in place must be tested annually.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.2 b) - Security requirements for facilities must be evaluated prior to alteration to building layouts.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.2 b) - Security requirements for facilities must be evaluated prior to change to equipment/systems located in the facility.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.2 b) - Security requirements for facilities must be evaluated prior to change in operations.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.2 b) - Security requirements for facilities must be evaluated prior to as part of any related security incident investigation.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.2 b) - Remote sites such as Regional Network Centres may be granted exception upon application.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.3 a) - Information Custodians must design, document and approve security controls for information processing facilities based on a Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.3 a) - Considerations must include determining security perimeter and maintenance factors.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.3 a) - Considerations must include establishing appropriate security zones.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.3 a) - Considerations must include design and construction complying with health and safety regulations and standards.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.3 a) - Considerations must include selecting unobtrusive sites and keep signage to the minimum required for meeting fire and other safety requirements.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.3 a) - Considerations must include limiting the identification of information processing facility locations, in publicly and internally available directories, to the minimum required.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.3 a) - Considerations must include selecting sites so that public access can be strictly controlled or avoided.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.4 a) - Information Custodians, site planners and architects must incorporate physical security controls that protect against damage from fire, flood, earthquake, explosion,  civil unrest and other forms of natural or man-made disaster.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.4 a) - Consideration must be given to any security threats presented by neighbouring premises or streets.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.4 a) - In  addition to meeting building code specifications and fire regulations combustible or hazardous materials must be stored at a safe distance from the secure area.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 - Additional security controls and procedures must be used by personnel working in secure areas.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 - The doer of this section should prevent unauthorized physical access to government information by designing and applying additional security controls and procedures for employees  working in secure areas.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must identify and document requirements that apply to personnel authorized to work in secure areas.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 a) - Information Owners  and Information Custodians are responsible for informing personnel working within a secure area that activities within a secure area are confidential and must not be discussed in a non-secure area, or with persons who do not have a need-to-know.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 a) - Information Owners  and Information Custodians are responsible for informing personnel working within a secure area that sensitive information must not be discussed with persons without a need-to-know.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 a) - Information Owners  and Information Custodians are responsible for informing personnel working within a secure area that no type of photographic (including cameras in mobile devices), video, audio or other recording equipment is to be brought into a Restricted Access Security  Zone unless authorized.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 a) - Information Owners  and Information Custodians are responsible for informing personnel working within a secure area that input and feedback to strengthen security controls is encouraged.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must identify and document requirements for other individuals who may need access to a secure area.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 b) - Information Owners  and Information Custodians are responsible for ensuring that maintenance staff, cleaners and others who may require access on an ongoing basis to the secure area must be screened and their names placed on access lists;  and,.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 b) - Information Owners  and Information Custodians are responsible for ensuring that visitors must obtain approval for visits, be appropriately screened, and their entry and departure times logged.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 b) - Personnel must escort visitors when they are  within the secure area.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 b) - Unoccupied secure areas must be physically locked and periodically checked.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.5 b) - Physical intrusion alarms must be installed to automatically alert monitoring staff of a  breach.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.6 - Access to delivery and loading areas must be controlled, and where possible separated from information processing facilities.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.6 - The doer of this section should prevent unauthorized physical access to government information by controlling access to delivery and loading areas and separating them from information processing facilities whenever possible.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.6 a) - Information Custodians, planners and architects must ensure that access to delivery and loading areas or Reception Zone is controlled when considering building design  and specifications.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.6 a) - The following factors must be considered delivery and loading areas must be designed so that supplies can be unloaded without delivery personnel gaining access to restricted access zones or other  parts of the building.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.6 a) - The following factors must be considered a combination of internal and external locking doors or gates must be used to provide security.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.6 a) - The following factors must be considered incoming material must be inspected for potential threats before being moved to or from the delivery and loading area.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.6 a) - For leased facilities that include delivery and loading areas, a Security Threat and Risk Assessment and inspection prior to leasing should be conducted to determine that access can be adequately controlled.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.6 b) - When delivery and loading areas are not separate from information processing facilities or other secure areas the following security controls shall be considered setting and maintaining hours of operation for delivery and pick-up.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.6 b) - When delivery and loading areas are not separate from information processing facilities or other secure areas the following security controls shall be considered continuous monitoring of the access to information processing facilities.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.6 b) - When delivery and loading areas are not separate from information processing facilities or other secure areas the following security controls shall be considered continuous monitoring of the delivery and loading areas, and,.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.1.6 b) - When delivery and loading areas are not separate from information processing facilities or other secure areas the following security controls shall be considered records must be kept for deliveries and pick-ups.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 - Equipment must be protected to reduce the risks from unauthorized access, environmental threats and hazards.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 - The doer of this section should reduce risks to equipment from unauthorized access, environmental threats and hazards.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 a) - Information Owners, Information Custodians, planners, and architects must collaborate to ensure that the design and layout of information processing facilities provides protection from security threats as supported by a Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 a) - Safeguards must include locating servers and other centralized computing equipment within a Restricted Access Security Zone.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 a) - Safeguards must include locating work stations, laptops and printers in an Restricted Access Operations Zone.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 a) - Safeguards must include protecting information processing equipment from observation by unauthorized persons, including by observing through windows and walking through work areas;  and,.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 a) - Safeguards must include locating shared printers, scanners, copiers, and facsimile machines away from public or reception areas, or in passageways or other areas where users who do  not have a need-to-know can access printed material.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for ensuring that kiosks and public terminal safeguards are based on a Security Threat and Risk assessment and reviewed annually.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 b) - Information Owners, Information Custodians, planners, and architects must collaborate to ensure that the design and layout of information processing facilities provides protection from physical and environmental hazards.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 b) - Safeguards must include using equipment designed for suppression of electromagnetic emanations that may be used to capture information, when the need is supported by a Security Threat  and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 b) - Safeguards must include ensuring that equipment is properly vented and that the temperatures and humidity in information processing facilities are appropriate for operating equipment  safely.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 b) - Safeguards must include providing lightning protection for information processing facilities which includes surge protection for power and communications.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 b) - Safeguards must include assessing and protecting equipment to minimize damage from fire suppression and other safety systems.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 b) - Safeguards must include protecting equipment from potential damage from environmental hazards such as water, dust, vibration, and sunlight.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 b) - Safeguards must include providing personnel with approved eating and drinking areas separate from work areas containing equipment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 b) - Safeguards must include briefing personnel who work with equipment about safety practices in the workplace.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 b) - Safeguards must include keeping information processing facilities free of biological pests that pose hazards to equipment and power systems.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.1 b) - Safeguards must include environmental factors that may pose a threat to safe equipment operation.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 a) - estimating current and future utility capacity requirements for the facility.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 a) - In addition to meeting the building code and other regulations, the following shall be  included in facility planning and specifications uninterruptible power supply, back-up generators, and fuel, as required by business and technical requirements.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 a) - In addition to meeting the building code and other regulations, the following shall be  included in facility planning and specifications emergency power off switches located near emergency exits in equipment rooms.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 a) - In addition to meeting the building code and other regulations, the following shall be  included in facility planning and specifications emergency lighting.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 a) - In addition to meeting the building code and other regulations, the following shall be  included in facility planning and specifications alarms to indicate inadequate water pressure for fire suppression.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 a) - In addition to meeting the building code and other regulations, the following shall be  included in facility planning and specifications alarms to indicate malfunctions in heating, ventilation, air conditioning, humidity control and sewage systems.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 a) - In addition to meeting the building code and other regulations, the following shall be  included in facility planning and specifications multiple connections to the power utility for critical systems and equipment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 a) - In addition to meeting the building code and other regulations, the following shall be  included in facility planning and specifications multiple telecommunications connections to prevent loss of voice  services.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 a) - In addition to meeting the building code and other regulations, the following shall be  included in facility planning and specifications adequate voice communications to meet regulatory requirements for emergencies.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 b) - Information Custodians must ensure that facilities are inspected regularly in accordance with building codes and other regulations.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 b) - Evacuation and other emergency  drills must be practised regularly in collaboration with fire and emergency services.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 b) - The facility requirements for utilities shall be re-evaluated during the planning phase for replacing or changing existing technology hardware.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 b) - The facility requirements for utilities shall be re-evaluated when moving significant numbers of new staff into facilities.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 b) - The facility requirements for utilities shall be re-evaluated during the planning of renovations or major changes to an existing facility.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 b) - The facility requirements for utilities shall be re-evaluated prior to leasing a facility.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 b) - The facility requirements for utilities shall be re-evaluated when there are major changes to the surrounding area that may affect utilities, evacuation routes or other safety aspects.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.2 b) - Inspections may be conducted more frequently when supported by business and technical requirements.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 - Power and telecommunications cabling must be protected from interception and damage.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 - The doer of this section should ensure continued availability and integrity by protecting power and telecommunications cabling from interception and damage.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 a) - Information Custodians, planners and architects must include the protection of power and telecommunications cabling from interception and damage when designing or  leasing facilities.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 a) - The following methods can increase protection power and telecommunications cabling must be underground and/or in a secure conduit.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 a) - The following methods can increase protection power cables should be protected with electromagnetic shielding.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 a) - The following methods can increase protection when supported by a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, consideration must be given to use of fibre optics for telecommunications cabling.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 a) - The following methods can increase protection cables must not be accessible in public areas.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 a) - The following methods can increase protection power and telecommunications cabling must be segregated in accordance with building codes and other regulations.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 a) - The following methods can increase protection inspection boxes, termination points, patch panels, control rooms and other facilities must be secured and located inside a Restricted Access Security Zone.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 b) - Information Custodians must ensure that the integrity of power and telecommunications cables are monitored through regular inspections and reports.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 b) - Information Custodians must ensure that records of patches and other changes are maintained and inspected for completeness and correctness.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 b) - Information Custodians must ensure that power and telecommunications cabling and wiring closets are inspected regularly and monitored for unauthorized access or inappropriate activity.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.3 b) - The frequency  of monitoring activities must be supported by a Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 - Equipment must be correctly maintained to enable continued availability and integrity.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 - The doer of this section should ensure the continued availability and integrity of equipment through correct maintenance.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 a) - Equipment being repaired or maintained must be protected commensurate with the sensitivity of the information it contains and the value of the equipment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 a) - Information  Owners and Information Custodians must determine if repair or maintenance can be conducted off-site.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 a) - The need to protect sensitive information may justify equipment  destruction and replacement rather than repair or maintenance.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 a) - Information Custodians are responsible for ensuring the scheduling of routine, preventive maintenance of equipment by qualified, authorized personnel.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 a) - Information Custodians are responsible for ensuring that maintenance is performed in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications, in compliance with warranty requirements, and using safe practices  as specified in building codes, other regulation and insurance policies.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 a) - Information Custodians are responsible for ensuring that, where possible, maintenance is scheduled to avoid interference with services or operations.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 a) - Information Custodians are responsible for notifying affected users prior to taking equipment off-line for scheduled maintenance.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 a) - Information Custodians are responsible for ensuring that the value and sensitivity of the information contained on the device is considered prior to approval of off-site maintenance.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 a) - o Place, date, time, type of scheduled  maintenance and technical staff, o Suspected and actual faults identified, o Diagnostics performed and corrective action taken, o Unusual or unexpected events, such as  early failures or breakdowns, and, o Any other event that requires maintenance.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 b) - Information Custodians must consult with Information Owners regarding the value and sensitivity of the information stored on hardware or media when determining whether  repairs will be conducted.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 b) - Information Custodians must ensure that information is safeguarded and maintenance on critical systems is undertaken in such a manner that the system is not off-line due to scheduled maintenance.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 b) - Information Custodians must ensure that information is safeguarded and maintenance is factored into system availability requirements.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.4 b) - Information Custodians must ensure that information is safeguarded and repair or maintenance is conducted within Canada.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must authorize and document off-site use of equipment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 a) - Equipment for off-site usage may include desktop and laptop computers.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 a) - Equipment for off-site usage may include portable storage devices.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 a) - Equipment for off-site usage may include mobile devices.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 a) - Equipment for off-site usage may include printers, scanners, copiers and facsimiles.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that government equipment being used offsite is protected commensurate with the sensitivity of the information it contains and the value of the equipment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 b) - Information Custodians must ensure that sensitive data is encrypted where supported by a Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 b) - Information Custodians must ensure that equipment is protected from unauthorized access by the use of a logical or physical access control mechanism (e.g., password, USB key or smart card).
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 b) - Information Custodians must ensure that equipment is protected from loss with a physical locking, restraint or security mechanism when appropriate.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 b) - Information Custodians must ensure that personnel are familiar with operation of the protection technologies in use.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 b) - The doer of this section should provide further protection personnel must not leave government equipment unattended in a public place.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 b) - The doer of this section should provide further protection personnel must ensure that equipment is under their direct control at all times when travelling.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 b) - The doer of this section should provide further protection personnel must use the physical locking, restraint or security mechanisms provided by the Information Custodian whenever possible.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 b) - The doer of this section should provide further protection personnel must take measures to prevent viewing of sensitive information other than by authorized persons.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 b) - The doer of this section should provide further protection personnel must not permit other persons to use the equipment.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.5 b) - The doer of this section should provide further protection personnel must report loss of equipment immediately using the General Incident or Loss Report.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 a) - Information Owners must consider the value and sensitivity of the information stored on hardware or media when determining whether it will be reassigned within government or destroyed.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 a) - Prior to reassignment of hardware or media within government Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that the integrity of government records is maintained by adhering to Records Management policies.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 a) - Prior to reassignment of hardware or media within government Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure information and software is erased using methods and standards approved by the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 a) - Prior to reassignment of hardware or media within government Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure roles and responsibilities are documented.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 a) - Asset inventories are updated to record details of the erasure and reassignment including o Asset identifier, o Date of erasure, o Names of personnel conducting the erasure, o Date of transfer, and, o Name of new asset custodian.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 a) - Where information is erased by third parties there must be contractual and audit procedures to ensure complete destruction of the information.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 a) - Third parties must certify that destruction has occurred.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for ensuring hardware media used to store information or software is destroyed in a secure manner.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 b) - Warranty repairs or servicing for hardware used to store information or software must be sent to a government approved site in a secure manner.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 b) - Hardware must be destroyed if the integrity of the information cannot be ensured during warranty repairs and servicing, e.g., work done outside Canada.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 b) - The Information Access Operations, Shared Services BC is responsible for ensuring secure destruction services are available to Information Owners and Information stodians.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 b) - A Corporate Supply Arrangement exists for provision of secure media destruction services.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 b) - Secure destruction service companies must be used to perform media disposal.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 b) - A Guide to Tangible and Intangible Asset  Disposals in the Government of British Columbia.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 b) - Re-deployed equipment should be randomly checked to verify that data and software are erased.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.6 b) - In the context of this policy, “reassignment? can only occur within or between government ministries.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.7 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must establish a formal authorization process for the removal of assets for re-location, loan, maintenance, disposal or  any other purpose.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.7 a) - Authorization forms for asset removal must include description and serial numbers.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.7 a) - Authorization forms for asset removal must include information about where the asset will be located.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.7 a) - Authorization forms for asset removal must include the removal date and return date.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.7 a) - Authorization forms for asset removal must include the identity of the individual responsible for the asset• Reason for removal of the asset.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.7 a) - The description and serial numbers must be verified when the asset is returned.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.7 a) - Personnel must be informed of and accept responsibility for protection of the asset (e.g., Terms and Conditions of Use).
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.7 a) - Personnel removing assets from government premises should be challenged to present an authorization for removal.
Chapter 5 - Section 5.2.7 a) - Personnel removing assets without authorization may be subject to disciplinary action.
Chapter 6 - Section null - This chapter establishes a framework to support the integration of information security in the services provided by government information processing facilities.
Chapter 6 - Section null - Planning and management of the day-to-day activities is required to ensure the availability and capacity of the resources that provide services.
Chapter 6 - Section null - Services can be  delivered by external parties and by computer networks and by all services that exchange information.
Chapter 6 - Section null - This framework identifies requirements to control and monitor  operations for service delivery and to manage changes as the operations evolve.
Chapter 6 - Section null - Controls for operations include documented processes, staff duties and formal methods to implement changes to facilities.
Chapter 6 - Section null - This includes methods to protect  information, create copies for back-up and to manage the media where those copies are stored.
Chapter 6 - Section null - Network protection requirements from threats such as viruses or  unauthorized disclosure are also described.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 - Audit logs recording user activities, exceptions and information security events must be produced and kept to assist in access control monitoring and future  investigations.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 - The use of information systems must be monitored and the result of the monitoring activities must be regularly reviewed.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 - Information system logging facilities and log information must be protected against tampering and unauthorized access.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 - Activities of privileged users must be logged, and the log must be subject to regular independent review.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 - Faults must be logged, analyzed and appropriate action taken.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 - Computer clocks shall be synchronized for accurate reporting.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Information Custodians must ensure that approved operating procedures and standards are documented.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Information Custodians must ensure that approved operating procedures and standards are consistent with government policies.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Information Custodians must ensure that approved operating procedures and standards are reviewed and updated annually.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Reviewed and updated when there are o Alterations to building layouts, o Changes to equipment/systems located in the facility, and, o Changes in business services and the supporting information systems operations.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Reviewed and updated when there are reviewed and updated as part of any related security incident investigation.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding information processing and handling.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding system re-start and recovery.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding back-up and recovery, including on-site and off-site storage.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding exceptions handling, including a log of exceptions.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding output and media handling, including secure disposal or destruction.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding audit and system log management.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding change management including scheduled maintenance and interdependencies.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding computer room management and safety.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding information Incident Management Process.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding disaster recovery.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding business continuity.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.1 a) - Operations documentation must contain detailed instructions regarding operations, technical, emergency and business contacts.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document and implement a change management process to control changes by identifying and recording significant changes.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document and implement a change management process to control changes by assessing the potential impact, including the security impact, of the change.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document and implement a change management process to control changes by planning and testing changes including documenting fallback procedures.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document and implement a change management process to control changes by communicating change details to relevant personnel.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document and implement a change management process to control changes by evaluating that  planned changes were performed as intended.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must plan for changes by assessing the impact of the proposed change on security by conducting either a security review or a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, depending on the size  of the change.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must plan for changes by identifying the impact on agreements with business partners and third parties including information sharing agreements, Memoranda of Understanding, licensing  and provision of services.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must plan for changes by preparing change implementation plans that include testing and contingency plans in the event of problems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must plan for changes by obtaining approvals from affected Information Owners and Information Custodians.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must plan for changes by training technical staff and operations staff if required.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 c) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement changes by notifying affected parties, including business partners and third parties.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 c) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement changes by completing re-certification and re-accreditation as required prior to implementation.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 c) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement changes by training users if required.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 c) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement changes by documenting and reviewing the documentation throughout the testing and implementation phases.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 c) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement changes by recording all pertinent details regarding the changes.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.2 c) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement changes by checking after the change has been performed that only the intended changes took place.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must reduce the risk of disruption of information systems by requiring complete and accurate documentation for every information system.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must reduce the risk of disruption of information systems by requiring that no single individual has access to all operational functions of an information system (e.g., operating system administrators must not also have  application administrator privileges).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must reduce the risk of disruption of information systems by rotating job duties periodically to reduce the opportunity for single individuals to have sole control and oversight on key systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must reduce the risk of disruption of information systems by automating functions to reduce the reliance on human intervention for information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must reduce the risk of disruption of information systems by requiring that individuals authorized to conduct sensitive operations do not audit those operations.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must reduce the risk of disruption of information systems by requiring that individuals responsible for initiating an action are not also responsible for authorizing that action.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must reduce the risk of disruption of information systems by implementing information systems security controls to minimize opportunities for collusion.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.3 b) - Where supported by a Security Threat and Risk Assessment or other formal assessment Information Owners and Information Custodians must employ two person access control  to preserve the integrity of the information system.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.4 - Development and test information systems must be separated from operational information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.4 a) - Information Custodians must protect operational information systems by separating operational environments from test and development environments using different computer rooms, servers, domains and partitions.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.4 a) - Information Custodians must protect operational information systems by preventing the use of test and development identities and credentials for operational information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.4 a) - Information Custodians must protect operational information systems by preventing access to compilers, editors and other tools from operational information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.4 a) - Information Custodians must protect operational information systems by using approved change management processes for promoting software from development/test to operational information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.4 a) - Information Custodians must protect operational information systems by prohibiting the use of operational data in development, test or training information systems• Prohibiting the use of personal information in  development, test or training information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.1.4 a) - Separating duties between development, test and operational information systems will assist in achieving the separation of systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 - Prior to using external information and technology services, security controls, service definitions and delivery levels must be identified and included in the  agreement with the external party.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 - The doer of this section should ensure service agreements with external parties specify requirements for security and service level continuity.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must include security requirements in procurement documents for information and information system services being  delivered by external parties.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - Security requirements must be documented when drafting procurement documents (e.g., Request for Information, Request for Proposal).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - Security requirements must be documented when evaluating bids to confirm acknowledgement and capability.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - Security requirements must be documented when preparing agreements or contracts.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - Security requirements must be documented when developing transition and fall back plans (e.g., migration from one service provider to another).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - 6.2.1.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure service agreements with external parties document service level continuity requirements and include processes  for ongoing review of service level needs with business process owners.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure service agreements with external parties document service level continuity requirements and include processes  for audit and compliance monitoring rights and responsibilities.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure service agreements with external parties document service level continuity requirements and include processes  for communicating requirements to service providers.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure service agreements with external parties document service level continuity requirements and include processes  for obtaining periodic confirmation from service providers that adequate capacity is maintained.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure service agreements with external parties document service level continuity requirements and include processes  for reviewing the adequacy of the service provider’s contingency plans for responding to disasters or major service failures.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.1 a) - Agreements should establish the metrics for service delivery levels (including risk profiles and audit trigger levels).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must establish processes to manage and review the information security of external party delivered services by assigning responsibility for monitoring to a designated staff member.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must establish processes to manage and review the information security of external party delivered services by maintaining an inventory of agreements and associated access rights.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.2 a) - Monitoring for compliance through processes such as o Conducting internal self assessments of control processes, o Requiring external parties conduct and submit self assessments, o Using embedded audit tools, o Requiring external parties to submit annual management assertions that controls are being adhered to, o Conducting independent security reviews, audits and updates to risk and controls reviews, and, o Analysis of audit logs.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.2 a) - Monitoring for compliance through processes such as establishing a process, jointly with the service provider, to monitor, evaluate, investigate and remediate incidents.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.3 - Change management processes for information system services delivered by external parties must take into account the criticality of the information systems,  processes involved and assessment of risks.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.3 - The doer of this section should ensure that changes to information system services delivered by external parties maintain or enhance security controls.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure agreements with external party service providers include provisions for amending agreements when required by changes to legislation, regulation, business requirements, policy or service delivery.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.3 a) - Requiring the service provider to obtain pre-approval for significant changes involving o Network services, o New technologies, o Use of new or enhanced system components (e.g., software or hardware), o System development, test tools and facilities,  o Modification or relocation of the physical facilities, and, o Sub-contracted services.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the change management process for information systems services delivered by external parties includes, as  required reviewing and updating the Security Threat and Risk Assessment to determine impacts on security controls.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the change management process for information systems services delivered by external parties includes, as  required implementing new or enhanced security controls where identified by the risk assessment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the change management process for information systems services delivered by external parties includes, as  required reviewing and updating the Privacy Impact Assessment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the change management process for information systems services delivered by external parties includes, as  required initiating and implementing revisions to policies and procedures.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.2.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the change management process for information systems services delivered by external parties includes, as  required revising personnel awareness and training programs.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.1 a) - Information Custodians are responsible for implementing capacity management processes by documenting capacity requirements and capacity planning processes,.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.1 a) - Information Custodians are responsible for implementing capacity management processes by including capacity requirements in service agreements.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.1 a) - Information Custodians are responsible for implementing capacity management processes by monitoring and optimizing information systems to detect impending capacity limits.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.1 a) - Projecting future capacity requirements based on o New business and information systems requirements, o Statistical or historical capacity requirement information, and, o Current and expected trends in information processing capabilities (e.g., introduction of more efficient hardware or software).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.1 b) - Information Custodians must use trend information from the capacity management process to identify and remediate potential bottlenecks that present a threat to system  security or services.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.1 b) - Information Owners should develop processes for business and service capacity management.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.1 b) - Resource capacity management processes should be automated where feasible.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 a) - Information Owners must ensure that system acceptance criteria are defined as part of the system development and acquisition process.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 a) - Prior to implementing new or upgraded information systems, Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure acceptance criteria are identified including privacy, security, systems development and user acceptance testing.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 a) - Prior to implementing new or upgraded information systems, Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure security certification is attained, indicating the system meets minimum acceptance criteria.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 a) - Prior to implementing new or upgraded information systems, Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure security accreditation to proceed with implementation is attained.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document system acceptance criteria, including projected performance and resource capacity requirements.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document system acceptance criteria, including disaster recovery, restart, and contingency plans and procedures.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document system acceptance criteria, including impact on standardized routine operating procedures and manual procedures.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document system acceptance criteria, including implementation of security controls.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document system acceptance criteria, including assurance that installation of the new system will not adversely affect existing systems, particularly at peak processing times.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document system acceptance criteria, including business continuity arrangements.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document system acceptance criteria, including training requirements.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document system acceptance criteria, including user acceptance testing.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 c) - The Information Owners and Information Custodians must receive assurance that a new or updated information system meets minimum security acceptance criteria.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 c) - Assurance should be obtained by conducting either an independent Security Threat and Risk Assessment or a Risk and Controls Review which determines whether a system  includes adequate controls to mitigate security risks.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 c) - This process will also determine the effect of the new system on the overall security of government information  systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 d) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must authorize the implementation of new or upgraded information systems based on the degree to which the acceptance  criteria are satisfied.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 d) - Suitable tests should be carried out during development of new information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.3.2 d) - A Privacy Impact Assessment must be completed for new or upgraded information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.1 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must ensure processes are implemented to maintain a critical incident management plan to identify and respond to malicious code incidents.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.1 b) - The Chief Information Security Officer must ensure processes are implemented to the Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for developing user awareness programs for malicious code countermeasures.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.1 b) - Ministry Information Security Officers are responsible for communicating technical advice and providing information and awareness activities regarding malicious code.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 - Mobile code must be restricted to the intended information system or environment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 - The doer of this section should protect information systems from malicious mobile code.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must establish processes for categorizing mobile code technologies to identify risk and restrict use based on potential to cause  damage or be used maliciously.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 a) - Proposals for the use of new and emerging mobile code technologies must be referred to the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer prior to use.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Information Owners must ensure Information Custodians permit access to, or use of, mobile code if required for business functions.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Methods to restrict or contain  mobile code include compartmentalization of mobile code execution to a logically isolated environment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Methods to restrict or contain  mobile code include blocking receipt or execution of mobile code.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Methods to restrict or contain  mobile code include restricting system resources available to the mobile code.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - contain mobile code.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Mobile code authored by the province must be digitally signed.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Mobile code authored by the province must be published on an authorized, trustable source.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Mobile code authored by the province must be transmitted to client systems over encrypted channels.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Mobile code authored by the province must be subject to certification and accreditation.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Information Custodians should periodically assess information systems to detect unauthorized mobile code.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - The criteria for mobile code technology risk assessment categories are severe risk to operations because of known security vulnerabilities, or broad functionality which permits unmediated access to work stations, hosts and remote  system services, and their mode of execution.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - The criteria for mobile code technology risk assessment categories are moderate risk to operations because of possible security vulnerabilities or functionality which allows mediated or controlled access to work stations, hosts,  and remote system services.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - stations, hosts or remote systems services.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Supports fine-grained, periodic or continuous safeguards.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Treatments for mobile code risks include obtaining digitally signed mobile code from trusted sources.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Treatments for mobile code risks include using configuration controls to resist known exploits.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.4.2 b) - Users should not access websites where the certificate is invalid.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.5.1 a) - Documenting the backup and recovery processes including o Types of information to be backed up, o Schedules for the backup of information and information systems, o Backup media management (e.g., retention period, pattern of backup cycles), o Methods for  performing, validating and labelling backups, and, o Methods for validating recovery of the information and information system.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.5.1 b) - Information Custodians must conduct a Security Threat and Risk Assessment to identify safeguards for backup facilities and media that are commensurate with the value  and sensitivity of the information and information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.5.1 b) - Safeguards include using encryption to protect the backed up information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.5.1 b) - Safeguards include using digital signatures to protect the integrity of the information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.5.1 b) - Safeguards include physical and environmental security.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.5.1 b) - Safeguards include access controls.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.5.1 b) - Safeguards include methods of transit to and from offsite locations (e.g., by authorized couriers, by encrypted electronic transfer).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.5.1 b) - Safeguards include storage of media adhering to manufacturer recommendations for storage conditions and maximum shelf-life.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.5.1 b) - Safeguards include remote storage of backup media at a sufficient distance to escape any damage from a disaster at the main site.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.5.1 c) - Information Custodians must regularly test backup and recovery processes.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 a) - Information Custodians must implement network infrastructure security controls and security management systems for networks to ensure the protection of information and  attached information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 a) - Selection of controls must be based on a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, taking into account the information security classification determined by the Information  Owners, and applicability to the network technology.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider network-related assets which require protection including information in transit.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider network-related assets which require protection including stored information (e.g., cached content, temporary files).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider network-related assets which require protection including network infrastructure.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider network-related assets which require protection including network configuration information, including device configuration, access control definitions, routing information, passwords and cryptographic keys.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider network-related assets which require protection including network management information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider network-related assets which require protection including network pathways and routes.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider network-related assets which require protection including network resources such as bandwidth.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider network-related assets which require protection including network security boundaries and perimeters.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider network-related assets which require protection including information system interfaces to networks.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 b) - The doer of this section should maintain the integrity of networks, Information Custodians must manage and control changes to network device configuration information such as configuration data,  access control definitions, routing information and passwords.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 b) - Network device configuration data must be protected from unauthorized access, modification, misuse or loss by the use of controls such as encryption.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 b) - Network device configuration data must be protected from unauthorized access, modification, misuse or loss by the use of controls such as access controls and multi-factor authentication.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 b) - Network device configuration data must be protected from unauthorized access, modification, misuse or loss by the use of controls such as monitoring of access.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 b) - Network device configuration data must be protected from unauthorized access, modification, misuse or loss by the use of controls such as configuration change logs.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 b) - Network device configuration data must be protected from unauthorized access, modification, misuse or loss by the use of controls such as configuration baselines protected by cryptographic checksums.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 b) - Network device configuration data must be protected from unauthorized access, modification, misuse or loss by the use of controls such as regular backups.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 b) - Status accounting must be regularly performed to ensure that configuration baselines reflect actual device configuration.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 c) - Where required by information classification and Security Threat and Risk Assessment, information must only be transmitted using a secured path.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 c) - Secured paths for information transmission must use controls such as data, message or session encryption, such as SSH, SSL or VPN tunnels.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 c) - Secured paths for information transmission must use controls such as systems to detect tampering.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 d) - Wireless Local Area Networks must utilize the controls specified by the Chief Information Security Officer and must include strong link layer encryption, such as Wi-Fi Protected Access.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 d) - Wireless Local Area Networks must utilize the controls specified by the Chief Information Security Officer and must include user and device network access controlled by government authentication services.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 d) - Wireless Local Area Networks must utilize the controls specified by the Chief Information Security Officer and must include the use of strong, frequently changed, automatically expiring encryption keys and passwords.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 d) - Wireless Local Area Networks must utilize the controls specified by the Chief Information Security Officer and must include segregation of wireless networks from wired networks by the use of filters, firewalls or proxies.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 d) - Wireless Local Area Networks must utilize the controls specified by the Chief Information Security Officer and must include port-based access control, for example use of 802.1x technology.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 d) - Where supported by the information classification or a Security Threat & Risk Assessment, additional controls for wireless networks may include virtual Private Network tunnel technology.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 e) - Where supported by the information classification or a Security Threat & Risk Assessment, additional controls for wireless networks may include information Custodians must document responsibilities and procedures for operational management of network infrastructure, including devices at network boundaries and  in user areas.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 f) - The doer of this section should facilitate monitoring, response and investigation, logging to a centralized log management service must be enabled, including logging of traffic traversing network security boundaries.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 f) - The doer of this section should facilitate monitoring, response and investigation, logging to a centralized log management service must be enabled, including logging of traffic within networks housing sensitive or mission critical systems or information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 f) - The doer of this section should facilitate monitoring, response and investigation, logging to a centralized log management service must be enabled, including logging of security-relevant events on network devices, such as operator login and configuration changes.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 f) - The doer of this section should facilitate monitoring, response and investigation, logging to a centralized log management service must be enabled, including logging of security-relevant events on systems that provide authentication and authorization services to network infrastructure devices such as routers, firewalls or  switches.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 f) - Logs must be continuously monitored to enable detection and response to security events and intrusions (e.g., automation of log monitoring and event alerting).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 f) - Information Custodians must ensure there is a clear segregation of duties for personnel involved in logging, monitoring or detection activities.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 f) - Active automated surveillance of networks must be implemented to detect and report on security events (e.g., network intrusion detection systems).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 f) - Sensors enabling on-demand capture of network traffic must be implemented at network security boundaries and within networks housing sensitive information or  information systems as determined by a Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 g) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document network security controls in the System Security Plan including a summary of risks identified in the Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 g) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document network security controls in the System Security Plan including roles and responsibilities for network security management.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 g) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document network security controls in the System Security Plan including specific procedures and standards used to mitigate risks and protect the network.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 g) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document network security controls in the System Security Plan including communication procedures for security-relevant events and incidents.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 g) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document network security controls in the System Security Plan including monitoring procedures (including monitoring frequency, review and remediation processes).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.1 g) - Wireless Local Area Network access points must be authorized by the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer for attachment to the government network.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.2 a) - Formal network service agreements must be established between network service providers and consumers of network services to specify service levels, services offered,  security requirements and security features of network services.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.2 a) - The network service agreement must include specification of the rules of use to be followed by consumers to maintain the security of network services.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.2 a) - The network service agreement must include specification of the schedule for ongoing verification of network security controls.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.2 a) - The network service agreement must include specification of the rights of either party to monitor, audit or investigate as needed.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.2 a) - The network service agreement must include specification of security incident response responsibilities, contacts and procedures•  The requirement to meet or exceed government security policy and standards.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.6.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must confirm that the specified security features are implemented prior to commencement of service delivery.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 a) - Information Access Operations, Shared Services BC is responsible for the management and disposal of government records through the Document Disposal Act.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 b) - The use of portable storage devices to store or transport information increases the risk of information compromise.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 b) - Portable storage devices are typically small,  portable and are easily lost, stolen or damaged, particularly when transported in public environments.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 b) - Information Owners, Information Custodians and Managers must ensure that use of portable storage devices is managed and controlled to mitigate risks.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 b) - Information Owners, Information Custodians and Managers must document processes for authorizing use of portable storage devices.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 b) - Information Owners, Information Custodians and Managers must ensure personnel using portable storage devices protect information and information technology assets in their custody or control.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 b) - The doer of this section should ensure that sufficient safeguards are implemented to protect information commensurate with its sensitivity, a Security Threat and Risk Assessment must be performed  prior to permitting the use of a class of portable storage devices.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 b) - Technical standards for each class of media must be documented including product name, mandatory controls, permitted information classifications and strength of  controls such as encryption key length.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 b) - Media handling procedures should include instructions to minimize the amount of information stored on portable storage devices.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 c) - Information Owners, Information Custodians and Managers must ensure personnel using portable storage devices are aware of the additional risks and responsibilities inherent with portable storage devices.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 c) - Information Owners, Information Custodians and Managers must ensure personnel using portable storage devices are familiar with operation of the required protection technologies and when they must be used.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 c) - Information Owners, Information Custodians and Managers must ensure personnel using portable storage devices are familiar with security event and loss reporting procedures.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 d) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider the impact of disclosure or loss of information stored on portable media from threats such as loss or physical theft.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 d) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider the impact of disclosure or loss of information stored on portable media from threats such as limited ability to control and log access to stored data.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 d) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider the impact of disclosure or loss of information stored on portable media from threats such as accidental media destruction.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 d) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider the impact of disclosure or loss of information stored on portable media from threats such as improper long term storage environment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 d) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider the impact of disclosure or loss of information stored on portable media from threats such as exposure to malicious and mobile code.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 d) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider the impact of disclosure or loss of information stored on portable media from threats such as incomplete erasure of data prior to device disposal.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 d) - Information classification and sensitivity levels must be considered in the risk assessment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 e) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include disabling portable storage devices, media drives or connection ports where no business reason exists for their use.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 e) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include documented definition of information classifications or sensitivities permitted to exist on specific media types.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 e) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include not storing the only version of a document on portable storage devices.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 e) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include documented authorization processes for use of portable storage devices.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 e) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include encryption of stored data.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 e) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include contractual requirements for external parties that transport, handle or store portable storage devices.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 e) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include adherence to manufacturer specifications for media storage environment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.1 e) - Documented portable storage devices handling procedures including o Off-site storage, o Third party transportation, o Information backup, o Prevention of mobile and malicious software, o Logging of media custody and location to allow for accounting and audit, o Media labelling to indicate owner, classification and special handling restrictions,  o Maintenance of information where the information storage requirement exceeds the expected media lifetime, and, o Secure erasure and disposal.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that media that is no longer required operationally (e.g., due to expiry, surplus, damage or wear), is  disposed of securely.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.2 a) - Prior to disposal, the Ministry Records Officer must be consulted.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.2 a) - Media disposal procedures must be documented and communicated to personnel.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.2 a) - Media disposal procedures must specify erasure and disposal measures whose strength is based on information sensitivity and type of media (e.g., erasure software).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.2 a) - Media disposal procedures must include secure destruction of media if erasure is not sufficient, or not cost effective (e.g., destruction by shredding, incineration or chemical dissolution).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.2 a) - Media disposal procedures must include secure storage measures for media collected for and awaiting erasure or disposal, to avoid undetected theft of small amounts of media from large  volumes awaiting disposal.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.2 a) - Media disposal procedures must include audit logs of media disposal.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.2 a) - The Information Access Operations, Shared Services BC is responsible for ensuring secure disposal services are available to Information Owners and Information  Custodians.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.2 a) - A Corporate Supply Arrangement exists for provision of secure media destruction services.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.2 a) - Secure destruction service companies should be used where practical to  perform media disposal.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.2 a) - Contact the Ministry Records Officer for further details or see Corporate Supply Arrangements - Record Destruction.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must document media handling procedures that are compliant with the information classification and handling requirements  for information stored on the media.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.3 a) - If information of various classifications is stored on media, the media must be handled according to the highest classification of the information stored.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.3 a) - Media handling documentation must include procedures for marking of media to its maximum information classification level label, in order to indicate the sensitivity of information contained on the media.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.3 a) - Media handling documentation must include procedures for access control restrictions and authorization.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.3 a) - Media handling documentation must include procedures for copying and distribution of media, including minimization of multiple copies, marking of originals and distribution of copies.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.3 a) - Media handling documentation must include procedures for operating the media storage environment and managing media lifespan according to manufacturer specifications.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.3 a) - Media handling documentation must include procedures for regular status accounting of media.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.3 a) - Media handling documentation must include procedures for maintenance of media transfer and storage records.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.3 a) - Media handling documentation must include procedures for media destruction and disposal.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.3 a) - Media handling documentation must include procedures for user training.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.3 a) - Only approved media devices appropriate for the classification of the information being stored may be used.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.4 - Systems documentation must be protected from unauthorized access.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.4 - The doer of this section should prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information contained in systems documentation.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.4 a) - Information Custodians and Information Owners must ensure that documented procedures for the secure use and storage of systems documentation are established and  followed.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.4 a) - Procedures must require information classification labelling of system documentation.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.4 a) - Procedures must establish lists of users authorized to access system documentation on a ‘need to know’ basis.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.4 a) - Procedures must establish handling rules for the information regardless of storage media (e.g., electronic, paper).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.4 a) - Procedures must require use of access controls, passwords, encryption or digital signatures as appropriate to the information classification.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.7.4 a) - Procedures must include a compliance monitoring process.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.1 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must document and implement procedures to protect information from interception, copying, misrouting and destruction when being  transmitted electronically or verbally.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.1 a) - Transmission methods include but are not limited to e-mail, including attachments.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.1 a) - Transmission methods include but are not limited to electronic file transfer (e.g., File Transfer Protocol (FTP), Electronic Data Interchange (EDI)).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.1 a) - Transmission methods include but are not limited to use of mobile devices.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.1 a) - Transmission methods include but are not limited to telephone, cell, and other voice messaging.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.1 a) - Transmission methods include but are not limited to faxes.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.1 a) - Transmission methods include but are not limited to instant messaging.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the terms and conditions for exchanging information assets with external parties is documented in an  agreement.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - The agreement must define custody and control accountabilities.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - The agreement must define authority of a custodian to publish, grant access to or redistribute the information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - The agreement must define purpose and authorized uses of the information or software.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - The agreement must define limitations on data linkage.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - The agreement must define duration, renewal and termination provisions.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - The agreement must define primary contacts, for agreement, governance and management.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - Requirements for o Protecting information according to its security classification, o Handling information (e.g., recording authorised recipients, confirming receipt of transmitted data, periodically reviewing records of authorised recipients), o Labelling information (e.g., methods to be used to apply and recognize labelling), o Maintaining integrity and non-repudiation of information, and, o Media management and destruction.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - Requirements for technical standards for transmission, recording or reading information or software.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - Requirements for responsibilities for reporting privacy and security incidents and breaches.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - Requirements for liability, accountability and mitigation strategies, for attempted, suspected or actual privacy and security incidents and breaches.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 a) - Requirements for problem resolution and escalation processes.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the following are completed for the information or software covered by the exchange agreement an approved Privacy Impact Assessment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure the following are completed for the information or software covered by the exchange agreement a Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 b) - Exchange agreements must be reviewed by legal counsel for the Province prior to being signed.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.2 b) - Legal Services, Ministry of Justice, should be consulted during the development of sharing agreements.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 - Media being physically transported must be appropriately protected.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 - The doer of this section should protect information from unauthorized disclosure or loss during physical transport of media.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 a) - The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer must document and implement security measures for the protection of media during transport that meet information  classification and handling requirements.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 a) - If information of various classifications is stored on media, the media must be protected according to the highest classification of the information stored.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 a) - Minimum media transport requirements are using couriers that are approved by government.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 a) - Minimum media transport requirements are inspecting identification credentials of couriers upon pick up and delivery of packages.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 a) - Minimum media transport requirements are obtain and retain receipts for media shipments.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 a) - Minimum media transport requirements are using packaging that will protect the media from loss or damage.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 a) - Minimum media transport requirements are packaging so that the classification of the media is not displayed.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 a) - Using notifications of transport activities, such as o sender informing receiver of the impending shipment, and, o receiver confirming receipt of the  shipment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 a) - Using notifications of transport activities, such as using two layers of packaging where the inner layer indicates the classification and handling requirements.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 a) - Using notifications of transport activities, such as using a locked container.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.3 a) - Responsibility for specification of physical transport procedures are shared between the Information Access Operations, Shared Services BC and the Risk Management  Branch and Government Security Office.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 - Information transmitted by electronic messaging must be appropriately protected.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 a) - Electronic messaging services must be managed to protect the integrity of government messages by protecting messages from unauthorized access, modification or denial of service.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 a) - Electronic messaging services must be managed to protect the integrity of government messages by ensuring correct addressing and transportation of messages.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 a) - Electronic messaging services must be managed to protect the integrity of government messages by providing reliable and available messaging infrastructure.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 a) - Electronic messaging services must be managed to protect the integrity of government messages by conforming with  legislative, regulatory and policy requirements.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 a) - The Government Chief Information Officer must approve implementation of, and significant modification to, electronic messaging systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 a) - Personnel must support the responsible use of electronic messaging services by using only government electronic messaging systems, including systems for remote access to government messaging systems from publicly available networks.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 a) - Personnel must support the responsible use of electronic messaging services by using only authorized encryption for e-mail or attachments; and.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 a) - Personnel must support the responsible use of electronic messaging services by not automatically forwarding government e-mail to external e-mail addresses.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 a) - Personnel must support the responsible use of electronic messaging services by maintaining the confidentiality and privacy of information being communicated in electronic messages as appropriate to the sensitivity and classification of  the information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 b) - Electronic messages created, compiled on, sent or received on government information systems are records of the government.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 b) - These records are the property of the Government of British Columbia.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 b) - These records must be managed in accordance with the Document Disposal Act and the policies, standards and procedures in the Recorded Information Management Manual.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.4 b) - These records are subject to the access and the protection of privacy provisions of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.5 a) - Information Owners must document and implement procedures to restrict access to information in interconnected internal administrative and productivity information  systems that support government such as e-mail, calendars and financial systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.5 a) - A Security Threat and Risk Assessment must be conducted to determine if business information systems provide sufficient protection for the information being shared.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.5 a) - A Security Threat and Risk Assessment must be conducted to define controls to manage information sharing.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.5 a) - A Security Threat and Risk Assessment must be conducted to reduce the risk of social engineering.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.5 a) - A Security Threat and Risk Assessment must be conducted to identify access control requirements.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.8.5 b) - The status of personnel must be indicated in shared directories (e.g., employee or contractor).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.1 a) - Prior to initiating or implementing electronic commerce information systems Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that the Security Threat and Risk Assessment is conducted and addresses threats and risks related to electronic commerce.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.1 a) - Prior to initiating or implementing electronic commerce information systems Information Owners and Information Custodians must confirm that a Privacy Impact Assessment has been conducted and approved.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.1 a) - Prior to initiating or implementing electronic commerce information systems Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that the user notification and acceptance of terms and conditions of use complies with government policies and standards.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.1 a) - Prior to initiating or implementing electronic commerce information systems Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure multi factor authentication is used commensurate with the sensitivity and value of the information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.1 a) - Prior to initiating or implementing electronic commerce information systems Information Owners and Information Custodians must develop and implement processes to maintain content currency.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.1 a) - Prior to initiating or implementing electronic commerce information systems Information Owners and Information Custodians must confirm the information system has received security certification and accreditation.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.1 a) - Prior to initiating or implementing electronic commerce information systems Information Owners and Information Custodians must develop Business Continuity Plans and supporting Disaster  Recovery Plans.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 - Information systems utilizing on-line transactions must have security controls commensurate with the value and sensitivity of the information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 - The doer of this section should maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of on-line transactions in information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for ensuring information systems containing on-line transactions implement security controls commensurate  with the value and sensitivity of the information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 a) - Security controls must be implemented to prevent incomplete transmission, misrouting, repudiation of transaction, unauthorized message alteration, unauthorized  disclosure, unauthorized message duplication and replay.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 a) - Security controls include validating and verifying user credentials.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 a) - Security controls include using digital signatures.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 a) - Security controls include using cryptography to protect data and information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 a) - Security controls include establishing secure communications protocols.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 a) - Security controls include storing on-line transaction details on servers within the appropriate network security zone.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for ensuring that information systems used for processing payment card transactions or connected to  payment card transaction processing systems comply with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements install and maintain a firewall configuration to protect cardholder data.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements do not use vendor-supplied defaults for system passwords and other security parameters.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements protect stored cardholder data.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open, public networks.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements use and regularly update anti-virus software or programs.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements develop and maintain secure systems and applications.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements restrict access to cardholder data by business need to know.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements assign unique ID to each person with computer access.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements restrict physical access to cardholder data.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder data.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements regularly test security systems and processes.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard V2.0 has 12 high-level requirements maintain a policy that addresses information security for all personnel.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.2 b) - Information Security Classification Standard Information Security Classification Framework B.C.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.3 - Management must pre-authorize the publication of information on publicly available information systems and implement processes to prevent unauthorized modification.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.3 - The doer of this section should protect the integrity and accuracy of information on publicly available information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.3 a) - Information Owners must approve the publication, modification or removal of information on publicly available information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.3 a) - Information Custodians are  responsible for maintaining the accuracy and integrity of the published information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.3 a) - Security controls must be developed, documented and implemented to maintain a record of changes to published information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.3 a) - Security controls must be developed, documented and implemented to maintain the integrity of published information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.3 a) - Security controls must be developed, documented and implemented to prevent the inappropriate release of sensitive or personal information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.3 a) - Security controls must be developed, documented and implemented to monitor for unauthorized changes.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.3 a) - Security controls must be developed, documented and implemented to prevent unauthorized access to networks and information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.3 a) - B.C.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.9.3 a) - The Information Access Operations and Government Communications and Public Engagement should be consulted prior to publishing the information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 - Audit logs recording user activities, exceptions and information security events must be produced and kept to assist in access control monitoring and future investigations.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 - The doer of this section should ensure usage of information systems can be monitored and audited.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that audit logs are used to record user and system activities, exceptions and information security and  operational events including information about activity on networks, applications and systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians will determine the degree  of detail to be logged based on the value and sensitivity of information assets, the criticality of the system and the resources required to review and analyze the  audit logs.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs should include, when relevant, the following information user identifier.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs should include, when relevant, the following information dates, times and details of key events (e.g., logon and logoff).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs should include, when relevant, the following information logon method, location, terminal identity (if possible), network address.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs should include, when relevant, the following information records of successful and unsuccessful system access attempts.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs should include, when relevant, the following information changes to system configuration.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs should include, when relevant, the following information use of privileges.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs should include, when relevant, the following information use of system utilities and applications.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs should include, when relevant, the following information files accessed and type of access (e.g., view, read, modify, delete).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs should include, when relevant, the following information network addresses and protocols.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs should include, when relevant, the following information alarms raised by the access control system.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs should include, when relevant, the following information activation and de-activation of protection systems (e.g., anti-virus, intrusion detection).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Audit logs may contain confidential data and access must be restricted to personnel with ‘need-to-know’ privileged access and be protected accordingly.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must not have the ability to modify, erase or de-activate logs of their own activities.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - If audit logs are not activated, this decision must be documented and include the name and position of the approver, date and a rationale for de-activating the log.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 a) - Where required, the Privacy Impact Assessment and/or Security Threat and Risk Assessment must be updated to reflect this decision.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 b) - Audit logs must be retained according to the approved records retention schedule for the system or information asset.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 b) - Audit logs must be retained indefinitely if an investigation has commenced which may require evidence be obtained from the audit logs.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 c) - Information Custodians must establish and document alarm response procedures in collaboration with Information Owners to ensure alarms are responded to immediately and  consistently.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 c) - Information Custodians should have documented authority to shut down all or part of a system or network when the alarm indicates new unacceptable threats are present.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 c) - When exercising this authority Information Custodians must report the circumstances to the Information Owners as soon as possible.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 c) - Normally, the response to an alarm will include identification of the alarm event.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 c) - Normally, the response to an alarm will include isolation of the event including affected assets.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 c) - Normally, the response to an alarm will include identification and isolation or neutralization of the source.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 c) - Normally, the response to an alarm will include corrective action.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 c) - Normally, the response to an alarm will include forensic analysis of event.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 c) - Normally, the response to an alarm will include action to prevent recurrence.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.1 c) - Normally, the response to an alarm will include securing of audit logs as evidence.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 - The use of information systems must be monitored and the result of the monitoring activities must be regularly reviewed.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 - The doer of this section should detect unusual or unauthorized use of information systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that the use of information systems can be monitored to detect activities including authorized and  unauthorized accesses, system alerts and failures.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must identify the activities to be reported as part of an exception  reporting process.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 a) - Authorized access, including o User identifier, o Date and time of log on and log off, o Type of event(s), o Files accessed, and, o Programs, privileges and/or utilities used.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 a) - Privileged operations, including o Input/Output device attachment and/or detachment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 a) - Unauthorized access attempts, including o Failed or rejected user actions, data access or other resource attempts, o Access policy violations and notifications for network gateways and firewalls, and,  o Alerts from intrusion detection systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 a) - System alerts or failures, including o Console alerts or messages, o System log exceptions, o Network management alarms, and, o Access control system alarms.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 a) - System alerts or failures, including changes to, or attempts to change, system security settings and controls.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 b) - Information Custodians must set up and document processes for the review of audit logs based on the Information Owners assessment of the value and sensitivity of the  information assets, the criticality of the system and the resources required for review.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 b) - Audit log reviews should prioritize reviews of high value and highly sensitive information assets,.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 b) - Audit log reviews should be based on a documented security threat and risk assessment,.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 b) - Audit log reviews should monitoring should be tested at least annually to ensure that desired events are detected.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 b) - Analysis of monitoring activities can indicate the efficacy of user awareness and training and indicate new training requirements.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 b) - Analysis of monitoring activities can indicate vulnerabilities that could be, or that are being, exploited; or.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.2 b) - Analysis of monitoring activities can indicate increases or decreases in unauthorized access attempts or unauthorized use of privileges.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 - Information system logging facilities and log information must be protected against tampering and unauthorized access.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 - The doer of this section should preserve the integrity of information system logging facilities and log information.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 a) - Information Owners are responsible for ensuring periodic independent reviews or audits are conducted to confirm that Information Custodians have implemented  appropriate controls.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 a) - Information Custodians must implement controls to protect logging facilities and log files from unauthorized modification, access or destruction.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 a) - Controls must  include physical security safeguards such as situating logging facilities within a secure zone with restricted access.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 a) - Controls must  include administrators and operators must not have permission to erase or de-activate logs of their own activities.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 a) - Controls must  include consideration of multi-factor authentication for access to sensitive records.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 a) - Controls must  include back-up of audit logs to off-site facilities.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 a) - Controls must  include automatic archiving of audit logs to remain within storage capacity.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 a) - Controls must  include scheduling the audit logs as part of the records management process.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.3 a) - Additional controls to be considered for logs associated with highly sensitive information include digital signing for detecting alteration or corruption•  Secure storage with two person access controls.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 - Activities of privileged users must be logged, and the log must be subject to regular independent review.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 - The doer of this section should protect government information from unauthorized access, modification or deletion.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 a) - Privileged users typically have extensive system permissions not granted to most users.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that the activities  of privileged users are regularly reviewed including logging event occurrence times.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that the activities  of privileged users are regularly reviewed including logging event details, such as files accessed, modified or deleted, errors and corrective action.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that the activities  of privileged users are regularly reviewed including logging identity of the account and the privileged user involved.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that the activities  of privileged users are regularly reviewed including logging the system processes involved.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 b) - Information Custodians must have a documented process to ensure that activity of privileged users is independently checked by the Information Owner or delegate.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 b) - Checks  should be conducted regularly and at random with the frequency being commensurate with the criticality, value and sensitivity of system and information assets.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 b) - Following verification of logs, the individual checking them should digitally sign them and store or archive them securely in accordance with the approved records  retention schedule.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.4 b) - The audit logs must be reviewed prior to being discarded or overwritten.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 - Faults must be logged, analyzed and appropriate action taken.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 - The doer of this section should support system security by establishing processes for reporting, logging, analyzing, resolving and correcting system faults.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement processes for monitoring, reporting, logging, analyzing and correcting system faults reported by users and  automated detection systems.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 a) - Fault logging requirements should be determined through a security threat and risk assessment.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 a) - Fault management report should include description of fault including date/time, location, extent of fault.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 a) - Fault management report should include analysis of probable source/cause.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 a) - Fault management report should include actions taken to respond to and/or resolve the fault• Corrective action taken.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 b) - Information Custodians must review fault logs to ensure that faults have been resolved and documented in a fault management report.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 b) - Information Custodians must provide  the fault management report to Information Owners.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 b) - Analysis and corrective action includes defining the fault and probable cause(s).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 b) - Analysis and corrective action includes assessing the effectiveness of corrective action(s).
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 b) - Analysis and corrective action includes checking to ensure that corrective action has not introduced unforeseen vulnerabilities.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 b) - Analysis and corrective action includes identifying trends so that corrective action makes increasingly effective use of resources while improving results.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 b) - Analysis and corrective action includes recommending upgrades and/or replacement of components, software or other elements that create/cause faults.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 b) - Analysis and corrective action includes improving fault detection and reporting to reduce the time between fault occurrence and taking corrective action.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.5 b) - Analysis and corrective action includes periodically re-assessing logging requirements.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 - Computer clocks shall be synchronized for accurate reporting.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 - The doer of this section should ensure the integrity of information system logs.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 a) - System administrators must synchronize information system clocks to the local router gateway; or,.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 a) - System administrators must synchronize information system clocks to government approved clock host.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 b) - System administrators must confirm system clock synchronization following power outages or brownouts.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 b) - System administrators must confirm system clock synchronization as part of incident analysis and audit log review.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 b) - System administrators must confirm system clock synchronization at least semi-annually in conjunction with Daylight Savings Time.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 b) - Government approved clock hosts are tick.gov.bc.ca.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 b) - Government approved clock hosts are tock.gov.bc.ca; or,.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 b) - Government approved clock hosts are any local router gateway.
Chapter 6 - Section 6.10.6 b) - The clock hosts must be synchronized with a national time service such as the Government of Canada, National Research Council’s Network Time Protocol server.
Chapter 7 - Section null - This chapter identifies the mechanisms that restrict access to government information and information assets.
Chapter 7 - Section null - Access restrictions protect organizations from security  threats such as internal and external intrusions.
Chapter 7 - Section null - Access control policies provide the blueprint for the management of user access, authorizations and control mechanisms for computer networks, operating systems,  applications and information.
Chapter 7 - Section null - This chapter identifies security best practices and responsibilities for administrators and personnel.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for establishing, documenting and approving access control policies which must support and enable business requirements identified in Privacy Impact Assessments.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for establishing, documenting and approving access control policies which must be based upon Security Threat and Risk Assessments• Include  classification of assets.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 a) - Access control policies must additionally consider both physical and logical access to assets.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 a) - Access control policies must additionally apply the “need to know? and “least privilege? principles.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 a) - Access control policies must additionally set default access privileges to “deny-all? prior to granting access.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 a) - Access control policies must additionally require access by unique user identifiers or system process identifiers to ensure that all access actions are auditable.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 a) - Access control policies must additionally have permissions assigned to roles rather than individual user identifiers.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 a) - The access control policy must be communicated to personnel as part of awareness training.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for establishing processes to manage the access control policies, including ensuring the process is communicated to all personnel.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for establishing processes to manage the access control policies, including documenting processes for user registration and deregistration.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for establishing processes to manage the access control policies, including segregating roles and functions (i.e.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 c) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must conduct periodic reviews of the access control policy as part of an ongoing process for risk management, security,  and privacy.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 c) - Reviews must be conducted annually at a minimum.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 c) - Reviews must be conducted prior to the introduction of new or significantly changed systems, applications or other services or major technology changes.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 c) - Reviews must be conducted when the threat environment changes or new vulnerabilities arise.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.1.1 c) - Reviews must be conducted following significant Government or Ministry re-organization as appropriate.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for managing access to the assets under their control and must implement registration processes which requires custodians to approve all access rights.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 a) - This process should o ensure access requests are approved by the supervisor/manager of the user requesting access, and, o ensure the reasons for requesting access are consistent with job responsibilities.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 a) - This process should maintain records of access right approvals.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 a) - This process should ensures personnel understand the conditions of access and, when appropriate, have signed confidentiality agreements.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 a) - This process should ensures access rights are consistent with the data uses documented in the approved Privacy Impact Assessment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 a) - This process should ensures accesses are traceable to an identifiable individual or process.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 a) - This process should ensures each user is assigned a single unique identifier for accessing information systems.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 a) - classification of the asset and supported by a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, ensures enhanced user security screening or background checks are completed prior  to authorizing access.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must formally assign responsibilities and implement processes to remove access privileges for employees no longer with the organization within 5 working days.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must formally assign responsibilities and implement processes to promptly review access rights whenever a user changes duties and responsibilities.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must formally assign responsibilities and implement processes to promptly review access rights whenever the user’s branch or department is involved in significant reorganization.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must formally assign responsibilities and implement processes to review access privileges for employees on extended absence or temporary assignments within 10 working days of the change of status.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must formally assign responsibilities and implement processes to remove access privileges for employees terminated for cause concurrent with notification to individual.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must formally assign responsibilities and implement processes to quarterly check for and remove inactive or redundant user identifiers.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 b) - Individual users may have multiple identifiers when required to meet limitations of technology.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.1 b) - appropriate.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for authorizing system privileges and must identify and document the system privileges associated with each information system or service.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for authorizing system privileges and must ensure processes are implemented to remove system privileges from users concurrent with changes in job status (e.g., transfer, promotion, termination).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for authorizing system privileges and must limit access to the fewest number of users needed to operate or maintain the system or service.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for authorizing system privileges and must ensure the access rights granted are limited to and consistent with the users’ job function and responsibilities.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for authorizing system privileges and must maintain a record of users granted access to system privileges.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for authorizing system privileges and must ensure use of system privileges is recorded in audit logs which are unalterable by the privileged user.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for authorizing system privileges and must implement processes for ongoing compliance checking of the use of system privileges.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for authorizing system privileges and must implement processes for regular review of authorizations in place to confirm that access is still needed and that the least number of users needed have access.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - User identifiers with system privileges must only be used for performing privileged functions and not used to perform regular activities.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - User identifiers established  to perform regular activities must not be used to perform privileged functions.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - Privileged users should not read the data of an information asset unless authorized.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - Privileged users should be able to alter user permissions for an information asset.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.2 a) - Privileged users should be permitted to view, but not alter, user activity logs as part of security safeguards.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.3 - The issuance of authentication credentials must be controlled through a formal management process.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.3 - The doer of this section should define the formal management processes for issuing passwords.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.3 a) - Ministries must formally designate individuals who have the authority to issue and reset passwords.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.3 a) - The following applies passwords shall only be issued to users whose identity is confirmed prior to issuance.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.3 a) - The following applies individuals with the authority to reset passwords must transmit new or reset passwords to the user in a secure manner (e.g., using encryption, using a  secondary channel).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.3 a) - The following applies whenever technically possible temporary passwords must be unique to each individual and must not be easily guessable.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.3 a) - The following applies passwords must never be stored in an unprotected form.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.3 a) - The following applies default passwords provided by technology vendors must be changed to a password compliant with government standards during the installation of the technology  (hardware or software).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.3 b) - The issuance of privileged user credentials must have two levels of approval.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.3 b) - Use of system privileges should require use of multi-factor authentication.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.3 c) - The management of issuance of multiple factors of authentication credential is covered in Cryptographic Standard for Information Protection.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.4 - Information Owners and Information Custodians must formally review user access rights at regular intervals.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.4 - The doer of this section should ensure that access rights only exist for users with a defined “need to know?.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement formal processes for the regular review of access rights.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.4 a) - Access rights must be reviewed annually.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.4 a) - Access rights must be reviewed more frequently for high value information assets and privileged users.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.4 b) - Review of access rights must include the following confirmation that access rights are based on the “need to know? and “least privilege? principles.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.4 b) - Review of access rights must include the following confirmation that all members of the group/role have a need to know.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.4 b) - Review of access rights must include the following reviews and verification of access control lists are dated and signed by the reviewer and kept for audit purposes.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.4 b) - Review of access rights must include the following confirmation that changes to access rights are logged and auditable.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.2.4 b) - Access control logs and reports are government records and must be retained and disposed of in accordance with approved record management schedules.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 b) - Passwords must be changed during installation of computer hardware and or software which is delivered with a default password.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 b) - Passwords must be changed immediately if a password is compromised or if compromise is suspected.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 c) - Privileged accounts have wider and more powerful access rights to information assets.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 a) - accounts must use passwords which are at least 15 characters where technically feasible• Change passwords more frequently than a password for normal account.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Passwords are highly sensitive and must be protected by not sharing or disclosing passwords.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Passwords are highly sensitive and must be protected by not permitting anyone to view the password as it is being entered.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Passwords are highly sensitive and must be protected by not writing down a password.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Passwords are highly sensitive and must be protected by not storing other personal identifiers, access codes, tokens or passwords in the same container as the token.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Passwords are highly sensitive and must be protected by not keeping a file of passwords on any computer system, including mobile devices unless that file is encrypted according to the Cryptographic Standards for  Information Protection; and.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Passwords are highly sensitive and must be protected by not employing any automatic or scripted logon processes for personal identifiers.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Passwords are highly sensitive and must be protected by not using personal identifiers, access codes, or passwords associated with Government accounts for non-government purposes.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - The Complex Password Standard for government systems requires that passwords contain a minimum of 8 characters.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Contain characters from three of the following categories o English upper case characters (A to Z), o English lower case characters (a to z), o numerals (0 to 9), and, o non-alphanumeric keyboard symbols (e.g., ! $ # %)• Not contain the user name or any proper names of the user.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - For example, the complex password “T#ocitpi7?is derived from the phrase “The number of clowns in the parade is seven?.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Complexity can be further increased by  substituting numbers for vowels.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Never divulge your password to anyone.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Legitimate IT technical support staff such as systems administrators, helpdesk and security will not ask users for their  passwords.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Exception granted to RACF and VM Secure due to technical product limitations.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - Where a business need is defined to keep written records of passwords an exception may be granted.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - For mobile devices connecting to the government messaging server, the following password rules apply passwords must contain a minimum of 6 characters.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - For mobile devices connecting to the government messaging server, the following password rules apply controls should be in place to prevent the use of overly simple passwords.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 d) - For mobile devices connecting to the government messaging server, the following password rules apply the use of complex passwords is not mandatory; however, the use of a combination of numbers, symbols, upper and lower case characters is recommended to  increase the password strength.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.2 - Users must ensure unattended equipment has appropriate protection.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.2 - The doer of this section should reduce risk of unauthorized access, loss or damage to information and information systems.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that users prevent unauthorized access to information systems by securing unattended equipment, by locking or terminating information system sessions before leaving the equipment unattended.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that users prevent unauthorized access to information systems by securing unattended equipment, by enabling a password protection features on the equipment (e.g., screen savers on workstations).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that users prevent unauthorized access to information systems by securing unattended equipment, by shutting down and restarting unattended workstations at the end of each workday.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that users prevent unauthorized access to information systems by securing unattended equipment, by enabling password protection on mobile devices including portable storage devices.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that users prevent unauthorized access to information systems by securing unattended equipment, by being aware of their responsibility to report security weaknesses where the above controls have not been applied.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.2 a) - B.C.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.2 a) - Government workstations and other devices used for information system access must automatically activate screen savers or equivalent locking systems after 15  minutes of inactivity or less.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 - Users must ensure the safety of sensitive information from unauthorized access, loss or damage.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 - The doer of this section should reduce risk of unauthorized access, loss or damage to information by ensuring users take reasonable security precautions.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 a) - Users should secure their work space whenever it is not supervised by an authorized person, including during short breaks, attendance at meetings, and at the end of  the work day.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 a) - Securing the work space includes clearing desk tops and work areas.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 a) - Securing the work space includes securing documents and portable storage devices in a locked desk or file cabinet.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 a) - Securing the work space includes ensure outgoing and incoming mail is appropriately secured.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 a) - Securing the work space includes enabling a password protected screen saver.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 a) - Securing the work space includes shutting down and restarting workstations at the end of each work day.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 a) - Securing the work space includes locking doors and windows.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 a) - Securing the work space includes checking fax machines and printers to ensure that no sensitive information is waiting to be picked up.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 b) - Users must develop and implement security conscious work habits to reduce the likelihood of unauthorized viewing, access or disclosure of sensitive information.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 b) - Security conscious work habits include ensuring sensitive information is protected from accidental viewing by persons passing through the work space.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 b) - Security conscious work habits include ensuring that only the documents required for current work are out of their normal file cabinet.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 b) - Security conscious work habits include covering up, filing or storing paper documents when visitors are present in the work area.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 b) - Security conscious work habits include are present in the work area Not discussing sensitive information in open work spaces or public areas.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 b) - Information access from printers may be controlled by installing or enabling technology which requires individual users to enter a private code or password to initiate  printing.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.3 b) - Ensure that offices can be locked and that storage with locks is available.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.1 - Users must only be provided access to the information systems they have been specifically authorized to use.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.1 - The doer of this section should support the information system access control policy by limiting network access to authorized users of specific information systems.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.1 a) - Information Custodians must enable network services needed to support business requirements (e.g., by explicitly enabling needed services and disabling unneeded  services).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.1 a) - Access to network services will be controlled at network perimeters, routers, gateways, workstations and servers.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.1 a) - Information system network access must be restricted to the authorized users and systems, using the principle of least privilege, as defined in the access control  policies for the information system.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.1 b) - Information Custodians must document processes for management of network access, including documentation and review of implemented network access controls.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.1 b) - Information Custodians must document processes for management of network access, including identification of threats, risks and mitigation factors associated with network services.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.1 b) - Information Custodians must document processes for management of network access, including testing of network access controls to verify correct implementation Assisting Information Owners to verify the principle of least privilege is used to minimize access, as specified in the access control policy.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.1 c) - Information Custodians must define and implement minimum security controls required for connection to networks (e.g., patch levels, anti-virus software, firewalls, user and system authentication  requirements).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.2 a) - Providers of remote network access services for individuals must perform a Security Threat and Risk Assessment for each remote access service to determine the authentication methods to be implemented.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.2 a) - Providers of remote network access services for interconnection of networks must perform a Security Threat and Risk Assessment for each remote network interconnection to determine the user and system authentication methods to be  implemented.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.2 a) - Factors to be considered include o classification of network services, information, and information systems accessible from the remote access service, and, o the strength of security controls  implemented in the remote network; Obtain prior approval to interconnect networks from Information Owners of every information system accessible from the remotely connected networks.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.2 a) - Factors to be considered include require remote network interconnections to connect through government designated remote access services or security gateways (e.g., Virtual Private Network,  Third Party Network Gateway).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 - Automatic equipment identification must be used, as appropriate, to authenticate connections from specific locations and equipment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 - The doer of this section should increase assurance of system identification where required by system sensitivity or classification.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 a) - Information Owners must use automatic equipment identification if the requirement is identified by a Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 a) - Factors to consider include the sensitivity and classification of information that may be accessed or stored.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 a) - Factors to consider include the physical security of information, information technology assets and location.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 a) - Factors to consider include unauthorized information access by people at the location, either inadvertent or deliberate• Remote access threats if remote access is utilized.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 a) - When Information Owners identify a requirement for connection to a network or information system from a specific location or equipment the connection may be  authenticated using automated equipment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 a) - Activities include an identifier must be in, or attached to, the equipment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 a) - Activities include the identifier indicates that the equipment is permitted to connect to specified networks or information systems and must be maintained in the asset inventory.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 a) - Activities include the equipment identifier must be inspected and sessions should be logged to verify that the identifier is being correctly used for access.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 a) - authentication.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.3 a) - The equipment should be secured from tampering by locating it inside a secure facility or ensuring it is under the direct supervision of an individual.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.4 - Physical and logical access to diagnostic ports must be securely controlled.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.4 a) - The doer of this section should prevent bypassing of information system access controls, Information Custodians must implement access control processes for the physical and logical access controls  of the ports, services and systems for diagnostic, maintenance and monitoring activities.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.4 a) - Physical and logical access controls to be considered for implementation include physical locks, locking cabinets, access control lists and filters, network filters  and user authentication systems.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.4 a) - Diagnostic ports must be kept inactive until needed, and kept active for the minimum time required.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.4 a) - Access to diagnostic ports from remote locations, or by external parties, or service providers must be authorized by agreements, contracts and conditions of use.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.4 a) - Use of diagnostic ports must be logged and monitored for suspicious activity.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 a) - Information Custodians must segregate services, information systems and users to support business requirements for information system connectivity and access control  based on the principles of least privilege, management of risk and segregation of duties.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 a) - Information Custodians must establish network perimeters and control traffic flow between networks.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 a) - Network traffic flow control points such as firewalls, routers,  switches, security gateways, VPN gateways or proxy servers must be implemented at multiple points throughout the network to provide the required level of control.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 a) - The techniques and technologies selected for network segregation must be based on Security Threat and Risk Assessment findings.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 a) - Factors to consider include the information and information system security classification.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 a) - Factors to consider include the trustworthiness of the network, based on the amount of uncontrolled malicious traffic present, the level of device identification and authentication in the  networks and sensitivity to eavesdropping (e.g., the Internet is a less trusted network than a controlled server network zone).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 a) - Factors to consider include transparency, usability and management costs of network segregation technologies.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 a) - Factors to consider include the availability of compensating controls for detection, prevention and correction of malicious network traffic and unauthorized access attempts.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 a) - Network zones should be defined and network perimeters established, according to business requirements and risk as identified in the Security Threat and Risk  Assessment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 a) - For example, network zones for Public access, Ministry, core network, wireless network, information system operational management and business applications  could be defined, separated by network flow control points.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 a) - Security gateways should be used to verify the trustworthiness of devices attempting to connect to the network (e.g., VPN Quarantine systems, network switch isolation  and admission control systems).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.6 a) - Information Custodians must restrict the ability of users to physically and logically connect to networks according to the access control policy defined by Information  Owners.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.6 a) - Techniques may include physical cabling protection.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.6 a) - Techniques may include physical control of network ports in public areas and meeting rooms.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.6 a) - Techniques may include segregated networks for unauthenticated devices.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.6 a) - Techniques may include user and device authentication prior to issuing network addresses.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.6 a) - Techniques may include router access control lists.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.6 a) - Techniques may include scanning for unauthorized network equipment (e.g., unauthorized wireless access points, modems)• Virtual LANs.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.6 a) - Direct network connections to information systems must only be permitted if required for information system function.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.6 a) - For example, database server hardware should be  placed in a network security zone to segregate it from direct network connections by user workstations.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.6 b) - Information Custodians must prevent unauthorized connection to wireless networks through use of identification and authentication techniques as determined by a  Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.7 - Networks must have routing controls to ensure that computer connections and information flows do not breach the access control policy of the information  system.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.7 - The doer of this section should control network routing to prevent unauthorized access or bypassing of security control points.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.7 a) - Information Custodians must implement mechanisms to prevent network address spoofing and routing of spoofed network traffic (e.g., through use of router access control  lists).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.7 a) - Security gateways must be considered for network access control points, in accordance with information system security classification requirements.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.7 a) - Gateways may be  used to validate source and destination addresses when proxy servers or network address translation are used with secondary identity verification techniques (e.g.,  user identifier and password, digital certificates).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.7 b) - Information Custodians must implement processes and controls to prevent unauthorized access to, or tampering of, network routing information (e.g., through use of  encryption, authenticated routing protocols, access control lists).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 a) - Information Owners must ensure that Information Custodians configure logon processes to minimize the opportunity for unauthorized access.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 a) - This includes providing an unauthorized user with any unnecessary assistance.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 a) - This includes displaying a general warning notice that the Information System be accessed only by authorized users.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 a) - This includes validating logon information only on completion of all input data• Not displaying passwords in clear text as they are entered.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 b) - Information Owners must ensure that Information Custodians configure logon processes to record unsuccessful logon attempts.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 b) - Information Owners must ensure that Information Custodians configure logon processes to allow a limited number of unsuccessful logon attempts.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 b) - Information Owners must ensure that Information Custodians configure logon processes to limit the maximum and minimum time allowed for the logon procedure.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 c) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure logon processes are configured to prevent transmission of passwords in clear text.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 c) - After three consecutive failed logon attempts for an account the logon process must lock the account and require Administrator intervention; or,.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 c) - After three consecutive failed logon attempts for an account the logon process must lock the account for 15 minutes and then allow a further three logon attempts.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 c) - The logon procedure should permit users to monitor the security of their account by displaying the following information on completion of a successful logon date and time of the previous successful logon.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.1 c) - The logon procedure should permit users to monitor the security of their account by displaying the following information on completion of a successful logon details of any unsuccessful log-on attempts since the last successful logon.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 - All users must be issued a unique identifier for their use only, and an approved authentication technique must be used to substantiate the identity of the  user.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 - The doer of this section should ensure that access to information systems requires use of unique authenticated user identifiers.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 a) - A single point of contact to o manage the assignment and issuance of user identifiers, o ensure that users, except for privileged users, are not issued multiple identifiers for any one information system or platform, and, o record user status (e.g., employee, contractor).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 a) - A single point of contact to identification of those individuals or positions authorized to request new user identifiers.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 a) - A single point of contact to confirmation that the user has been informed of appropriate use policies.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 a) - A single point of contact to automated linkages with the personnel management system (i.e.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 a) - The doer of this section should segregate roles or functions, privileged users may be issued multiple identifiers for an information system or platform.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that user identifiers are authenticated by an approved authentication mechanism.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 b) - User identifiers authenticated by means other than a password must use a mechanism approved by the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 c) - In exceptional circumstances, where there is a clear business benefit identified by the Information Owner or Information Custodian, the use of a positional user  identifier for a group of users or a specific job can be used, provided positional user identifiers are not used for privileged users.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 c) - The Manager responsible for the position using the positional user identifier o Maintains a record of the name of the individual, the user identifier, and the start- and enddate of use, and, o Deactivates the user identifier when not in use by requesting a password reset.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 c) - BC Government Standard for complex passwords is defined in ISP 7.3.1.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 c) - Processes for issuing and managing information system user identifiers should be coordinated with those for issuing and managing other identification credentials  (e.g., building passes, user identifiers for telecommunications services provided to an individual).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.2 c) - The Manager responsible for the position using the positional user identifier must request a password reset after each staffing change.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.3 - A password management system must be in place to provide an effective, interactive facility that ensures quality passwords.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.3 - The doer of this section should support the operating system access control policy through use of password management systems to enforce the password standard.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure password management systems enforce the use of individual user identifiers and passwords.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure password management systems support user selection and change of passwords using the Complex Password Standard.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure password management systems enforce user change of temporary passwords at first logon and after password reset by an Administrator.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure password management systems enforce regular user password change, including advance warning of impending expiry.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure password management systems prevent re-use of passwords for a specified number of times.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure password management systems prevent passwords from being viewed on-screen.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure password management systems store password files separately from application system data.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure password management systems ensure password management systems are protected from unauthorized access and manipulation.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure password management systems the Complex Password Standard.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 - Use of system utility programs must be restricted and tightly controlled.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 - The doer of this section should restrict and tightly control the use of utility programs, which may be used to override system and application controls.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must limit use of system utility programs by defining and documenting authorization levels.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must limit use of system utility programs by restricting the number of users with access to system utility programs.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must limit use of system utility programs by annually reviewing the status of users with permissions to use system utility programs.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must limit use of system utility programs by ensuring that the use of system utilities maintains segregation of duties.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must limit use of system utility programs by requiring a secure logon process to be used to access system utilities.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must limit use of system utility programs by ensuring that all system utility programs are identified and usage logged.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must limit use of system utility programs by segregating system utilities from application software where possible.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must limit use of system utility programs by removing or disabling unnecessary and obsolete system utilities and system software.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 a) - Use of system utility programs should be limited to privileged users.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.4 a) - Use of system privileges should require use of multiple factors of authentication.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must define and implement automatic termination or reauthentication of active sessions after a pre-determined period of  inactivity.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.5 a) - Government information systems must have session time-outs managed by operating system access, application or government infrastructure controls.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.5 a) - Application and network sessions must be terminated or require re-authentication after a pre-defined period of inactivity commensurate with the risks related to the security zone.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.5 a) - Application and network sessions must be terminated or require re-authentication after a pre-defined period of inactivity commensurate with the classification of the information being handled.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.5 a) - Application and network sessions must be terminated or require re-authentication after a pre-defined period of inactivity commensurate with the risks related to the use of the equipment by multiple users.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.5 a) - The session must be terminated or require re-authentication after a period of no more than 15 minutes of inactivity.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.6 - Restrictions on connection times must be used to provide additional security for high value applications.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.6 - The doer of this section should limit opportunities for inappropriate and unauthorized access to high value applications by restricting access hours and connection duration.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.6 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must restrict access hours for high value applications.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.6 a) - Restricting operating hours includes establishing restrictions for access from high risk public or external locations which are outside the control of the ministry.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.6 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must limit the duration of connection times for high value applications.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.6 b) - Restricting connection duration includes limiting session length.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.5.6 b) - Restricting connection duration includes requiring re-authentication of the user when a session has been inactive for a pre-defined period of time.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 - Access to information systems functions and information must be restricted in accordance with the access control policy.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 - The doer of this section should restrict access to application systems functions and information to authorized individuals or systems.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians are responsible for ensuring the implementation of the access control policy for their business applications.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 a) - Every  information system must have an access control policy that specifies access permissions for information and system functions.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 a) - The access control policy must identify  the information and system functions accessible by various classes of users.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 a) - The application and information section of the access control policy must specify the information to be controlled.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 a) - The application and information section of the access control policy must specify the system functions to be controlled.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 a) - The application and information section of the access control policy must specify business need.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 b) - Information system access controls must be configurable to allow Information Custodians to modify access permissions without making code changes.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 b) - System utilities or functions that can bypass user access controls must be specified in the access control policy.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 b) - Access to these utilities and functions must be  restricted.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.1 c) - Information that is publicly accessible must be segregated from non-public information.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.2 - Information systems managing data of a sensitive nature must have an isolated dedicated computing environment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.2 - The doer of this section should ensure that sensitive information systems are segregated from non-sensitive information systems and are not compromised by sharing information  technology resources with non-sensitive information systems.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must conduct a Security Threat and Risk Assessment to determine the information system classification level.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.2 a) - The  information system classification level determines which network security zone the information system must reside.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.6.2 a) - Security zones must be established using physical or logical methods, which may include separate network segments, separate servers, firewalls, access control lists  and proxy servers.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 - Appropriate controls must be implemented to mitigate security risks associated with the use of portable storage devices.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 - The doer of this section should protect information stored on portable storage devices from loss or unauthorized access.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that use of portable storage devices is managed and controlled to mitigate the inherent risks of portable  storage devices.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 a) - The use of portable storage devices such as laptops or other mobile devices to access, store, or process information increases the risk of information compromise.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 a) - Portable storage devices are typically small, portable, used in uncontrolled public environments and are easily lost, stolen or damaged.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 a) - performed prior to permitting subscription or use of mobile computing services.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 a) - Users of mobile computing services must ensure that information and information technology assets in their custody or control are protected.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 b) - Providers of mobile computing services must perform annual risk assessments to identify service-specific risks.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 b) - Policies, standards, practices and guidelines that  treat these risks must be developed, documented and maintained by the service provider.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 c) - User identifiers and user credentials must be protected to reduce the risk of unauthorized access to information and information technology assets.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 c) - In particular, users must protect against visual eavesdropping of passwords, PINs and other credentials, especially when in public places.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 - Portable storage devices are typically used to store information or remotely access government networks and services.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.3.1 - The policies and procedures governing remote  access apply to mobile devices.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 - and ISP 7.4.6.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 - Where Remote Access services are used, the portable storage device must  be configured to prevent its use as a conduit between the non-government and government networks (e.g., VPN split tunnelling must be disabled).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 - Network access to portable storage devices from non-government networks must be blocked by implementation of firewall or filtering technologies to protect against  attack (e.g., to prevent network attacks against the mobile device).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 - Portable storage devices must be protected against mobile and malicious code.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.4.5 - Portable storage devices must be locked and/or secured when unattended to prevent unauthorized use or theft (e.g., use device locks, cable locks, physical container  locks, PINs or screensaver locks).
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 e) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must provide users of mobile computing services with security awareness training, to ensure that Users are aware of the additional risks and responsibilities inherent in mobile computing and when using portable storage devices.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 e) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must provide users of mobile computing services with security awareness training, to ensure that Users are familiar with operation of the protection technologies in use• Familiar with the Information Incident Management Process.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider threats to information and information technology assets, such as physical theft.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider threats to information and information technology assets, such as use of the portable devices to remotely access Government networks and systems.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider threats to information and information technology assets, such as data interception.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider threats to information and information technology assets, such as credential theft.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider threats to information and information technology assets, such as unauthorized device use.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider threats to information and information technology assets, such as device destruction.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider threats to information and information technology assets, such as information destruction.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider threats to information and information technology assets, such as covert key logging or password harvester programs• Malicious and mobile code.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - Information classification and sensitivity levels must be considered in the risk assessment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include encryption of stored data to prevent information loss resulting from the theft of the mobile or remote device.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include encryption of data transmitted via public network.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include access control permissions on a portable storage device must be applied to prevent unauthorised access to information by system users, particularly for multi-  user mobile systems.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include regularly maintained data backups of information stored on portable storage devices using government backup facilities to protect against information loss.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include the doer of this section should provide information availability portable storage devices must not be used to store the only copy of a government record.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include physical security of the device must be maintained to protect against asset and information loss.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.1 f) - Minimum information protection safeguards for the use of portable storage devices include user authentication to the portable storage device and user authentication for remote access from the device must be implemented in accordance with  authentication policies.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 - Teleworking must employ security controls to ensure that information resources are not compromised.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 - The doer of this section should protect information accessed through teleworking arrangements from loss or unauthorized access.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 a) - permission for employees to enter into a teleworking arrangement.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider the sensitivity and classification of information that may be accessed or stored at the teleworking location.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider the physical security of information, information technology assets and the teleworking location.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider unauthorized information access by people at the teleworking location, either inadvertent or deliberate.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 a) - The Security Threat and Risk Assessment must consider remote access threats if remote access is utilized.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 a) - Security controls that must be considered include restriction of permitted information types and classifications at the teleworking location.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 a) - Security controls that must be considered include provision of government-managed equipment, if appropriate, due to information sensitivity or volume.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 a) - Security controls that must be considered include use of secure cabinets, shredders and other physical security equipment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 a) - Security controls that must be considered include encryption of data stored at the teleworking location.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 a) - Security controls that must be considered include security awareness training for protection of information and information assets, including clear desk policy, information handling rules, physical security  issues and remote access training• Monitoring and review of teleworking equipment for security events and incident response.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - Teleworking arrangements must be formally authorized and documented.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions the expectation that the user will actively protect information and information technology assets.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions restrictions on the information types or classifications permitted at the teleworking location.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions the requirement to protect information from inadvertent or deliberate disclosure to people at the teleworking location by use of secure cabinets, passwords or  shredders.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions the authorized teleworking location and contact information.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions information backup requirements.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions what equipment and software is supplied by the employee and what is supplied by the employer.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions the terms of use for remote access, if applicable.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions the requirement to meet or exceed specified wireless networking security controls, if wireless networking will be used at the teleworking location.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions the requirement to report security events or unusual activity.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions the right of the province to monitor and investigate security events at the teleworking location, including access to employee owned equipment used for  teleworking.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions the requirement to establish and maintain security controls as determined in the Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions arrangements for technical support.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 b) - A documented teleworking agreement between the employer and employee must exist that specifies the following user responsibilities, terms and conditions the start date, end date, expected work hours and provision for termination of the teleworking arrangement.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 c) - Ministries must develop and publish policy that governs ad hoc teleworking, in particular the practice of removing material from the workplace.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 c) - Controls required for  an ad hoc teleworking policy are restriction of the information types and classifications that may be accessed or utilized while teleworking.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 c) - Controls required for  an ad hoc teleworking policy are use of secure cabinets, shredders and other physical security equipment.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 c) - Controls required for  an ad hoc teleworking policy are minimum technical security controls required for non-government computing equipment, in particular current anti-virus, personal firewall and current software  patches.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 c) - Controls required for  an ad hoc teleworking policy are subject to applicable law, the right of the province to monitor and investigate security events at the teleworking location, including access to employee owned  equipment used for teleworking.
Chapter 7 - Section 7.7.2 c) - Ad hoc teleworking users should use one of the following security measures when accessing the government information services shared Services BC Desktop Terminal Service (DTS); or.
Chapter 8 - Section null - Ad hoc teleworking users should use one of the following security measures when accessing the government information services this chapter establishes requirements for incorporating security measures into the life cycle of an information system.
Chapter 8 - Section null - Security controls must be identified as part of  the business requirements for new information systems or enhancements to existing information systems.
Chapter 8 - Section null - Information security is integrated into the creation, modification, implementation and expansion by ongoing security practices such as the management of vulnerable  points and securing system files.
Chapter 8 - Section null - For applications, information security can be applied to the validation of data input and output and by encoding information using  electronic keys.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 a) - Information Owners must conduct a Security Threat and Risk Assessment during the requirements phase when developing, implementing major changes to, or acquiring an  information system, to identify the security requirements necessary to protect the information system• Assign a security classification to the  information and information system.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 a) - The Information Owner must ensure that information system development or acquisition activities are done in accordance with documented requirements, standards and  procedures which include testing the information system to verify that it functions as intended.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 a) - The Information Owner must ensure that information system development or acquisition activities are done in accordance with documented requirements, standards and  procedures which include enforcing change control processes to identify and document modifications or changes which may compromise security controls or introduce security weaknesses;  and,.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 a) - The Information Owner must ensure that information system development or acquisition activities are done in accordance with documented requirements, standards and  procedures which include using common government processes and services (e.g., authentication, access control, financial management).
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that sufficient controls are in place to mitigate the risk of information loss, error or misuse from  information systems.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 b) - Prior to implementation, information systems must be assessed to verify the adequacy of, and document the details of, the security controls used,  by completing a security certification.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 c) - A System Security Plan must be documented and maintained for each information system.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 c) - The System Security Plan includes a summary of risks identified in the Security Threat and Risk Assessment.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 c) - The System Security Plan includes results of the system certification.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 c) - The System Security Plan includes roles and responsibilities for information system security management.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 c) - The System Security Plan includes specific procedures and standards used to mitigate risks and protect the information system.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 c) - The System Security Plan includes communication procedures for security-relevant events and  incidents• Monitoring procedures.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 c) - While Security Threat and Risk Assessments are not required for apps on mobile devices, users must consider potential risks before downloading apps.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 c) - Some apps have  been found to have harmful effects and may inadvertently release information from the device to third parties.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 c) - Apps should be downloaded only from official vendor  provided app stores.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.1.1 c) - Mobile devices attached to government network must be used according to vendor specifications (e.g., not removing vendor built-in restrictions).
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.1 - Data input to an information system must be validated to ensure that it is correct and appropriate.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.1 - The doer of this section should maintain the integrity of information in information systems by preventing the introduction of invalid or incomplete data.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.1 a) - Information Owners must ensure the validity and integrity of data input to information systems by limiting fields to accept specific ranges of data (e.g., defining out of range values or upper and lower data volume limits).
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.1 a) - Information Owners must ensure the validity and integrity of data input to information systems by checking for invalid characters in data fields.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.1 a) - Information Owners must ensure the validity and integrity of data input to information systems by making key fields mandatory.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.1 a) - Information Owners must ensure the validity and integrity of data input to information systems by verifying the plausibility of input data using business rules.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.1 a) - Information Owners must ensure the validity and integrity of data input to information systems by protecting against common attacks (e.g., buffer overflows); and.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.1 a) - Information Owners must ensure the validity and integrity of data input to information systems by using control balances to verify complete input and processing.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.2 a) - Information Owners must require that information systems include internal processing checks to detect unauthorised or incorrect changes to information.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.2 a) - Information Owners must require that information systems include internal processing checks to prevent information from being accidentally overwritten.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.2 a) - Information Owners must require that information systems include internal processing checks to prevent internal information from being disclosed via information system responses.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.2 a) - Information Owners must require that information systems include internal processing checks to protect against common attacks (e.g., buffer overflows).
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.2 a) - Information Owners must require that information systems include internal processing checks to check the integrity, authenticity or any other security feature of data or software downloaded or uploaded between central or remote computers.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.2 a) - Information Owners must require that information systems include internal processing checks to maintain audit trails.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.2 a) - Information Owners must require that information systems include internal processing checks to provide error and exception reports.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.2 a) - Information Owners must ensure that error and exception reports are monitored, followed up and signed off on a regular basis.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.3 - Message integrity controls must be used for information systems where there is a security requirement to protect the authenticity of the message content.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.3 - The doer of this section should prevent errors, loss, unauthorized modification or misuse of information in information systems.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.3 a) - Information Owners must determine message integrity requirements during the requirements definition phase of system development or acquisition.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.4 - Data output from an information system must be validated to ensure that the processing of stored information is correct and appropriate to the circumstances.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.4 - The doer of this section should verify correct information processing for output data.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.4 a) - Information Owners must require that processes are documented to validate the data output from an information system by reconciling control balances to verify that data is processed accurately.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.4 a) - Information Owners must require that processes are documented to validate the data output from an information system by verifying the plausibility of output data using business rules.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.4 a) - Information Owners must require that processes are documented to validate the data output from an information system by providing sufficient information for a reader or subsequent information system to determine the accuracy, completeness, precision and classification of the  information.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.4 a) - Information Owners must require that processes are documented to validate the data output from an information system by maintaining audit trails.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.4 a) - Information Owners must require that processes are documented to validate the data output from an information system by providing error and exception reports.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.2.4 a) - Information Owners must ensure that error and exception reports are monitored, followed up and signed off on a regular basis.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 a) - The Government Chief Information Officer provides government direction and leadership in the use of cryptography and the provision of cryptographic services, such as  those used for user registration services and key management services, by establishing policy and providing strategic direction on the use of cryptography.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 a) - The Government Chief Information Officer provides government direction and leadership in the use of cryptography and the provision of cryptographic services, such as  those used for user registration services and key management services, by setting standards for cryptographic algorithms and key length•  Approving the use of cryptographic services.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer supports the use of cryptography in government by defining and maintaining standards for cryptographic controls•  Providing technical advice on the use of cryptography.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 a) - Information Owners must document the use of cryptography in the System Security Plan for the information system.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 b) - The type and quality of cryptographic controls used in information systems must be based on a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, and include consideration of confidentiality requirements, in accordance with information classification, labelling and handling requirements.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 b) - The type and quality of cryptographic controls used in information systems must be based on a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, and include consideration of integrity requirements (e.g., for financial payment instructions in excess of a specified dollar amount).
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 b) - The type and quality of cryptographic controls used in information systems must be based on a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, and include consideration of non-repudiation requirements (e.g., for proof of the occurrence or non-occurrence of an event).
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 b) - The type and quality of cryptographic controls used in information systems must be based on a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, and include consideration of authentication requirements (e.g., proof of identity).
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 b) - The type and quality of cryptographic controls used in information systems must be based on a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, and include consideration of other security measures (e.g., for proof of origin, receipt, or ownership).
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 b) - The type and quality of cryptographic controls used in information systems must be based on a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, and include consideration of legislation, regulations or policies requiring the use of cryptography.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 b) - The type and quality of cryptographic controls used in information systems must be based on a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, and include consideration of restrictions on the export or use of cryptographic products.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 b) - The type and quality of cryptographic controls used in information systems must be based on a Security Threat and Risk Assessment, and include consideration of risks relating to the long-term storage of electronic information (e.g., recovery of encrypted data, long-term key maintenance).
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.1 b) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must register the use of approved cryptographic products and services with the Chief Information Security Officer.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.2 - A key management system based on an agreed set of standards, procedures and methods must be used to support the use of cryptographic controls.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.2 - The doer of this section should provide trust-worthy key management processes for government cryptographic services.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.2 a) - The Government Chief Information Officer is responsible for approving key management standards and processes, including selection of cryptographic keys with sufficient lengths.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.2 a) - The Government Chief Information Officer is responsible for approving key management standards and processes, including distribution, storage and periodic updating of cryptographic keys.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.2 a) - The Government Chief Information Officer is responsible for approving key management standards and processes, including revocation of cryptographic keys (e.g., when a recipient changes job).
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.2 a) - The Government Chief Information Officer is responsible for approving key management standards and processes, including recovery of cryptographic keys that are lost, corrupted or have expired.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.2 a) - The Government Chief Information Officer is responsible for approving key management standards and processes, including management of cryptographic keys that may have been compromised.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.2 a) - The Government Chief Information Officer is responsible for approving key management standards and processes, including archival of cryptographic keys and the maintenance of cryptographic key history.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.3.2 a) - The Government Chief Information Officer is responsible for approving key management standards and processes, including allocation of activation/de-activation dates.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement procedures to control software installation on operational information systems providing services to  ensure that updates of operational information systems are planned, approved, impacts assessed, tested, logged and have a rollback plan.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement procedures to control software installation on operational information systems providing services to  ensure that operations personnel and end users have been notified of the changes, potential impacts and if required have received additional training.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement procedures to control software installation on operational information systems providing services to  ensure that new releases of software are reviewed to determine if the release will introduce new security vulnerabilities.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement procedures to control software installation on operational information systems providing services to  ensure that modifications to operational software are logged.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement procedures to control software installation on operational information systems providing services to  ensure that the number of personnel able to perform the updates is restricted and kept to a minimum.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement procedures to control software installation on operational information systems providing services to  ensure that development code or compilers are not present on operational  information systems• Vendor supplied software is maintained at the supported level.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before an updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment, checks should be performed to ensure that a Security Threat and Risk Assessment has been carried out.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before an updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment, checks should be performed to ensure that a Privacy Impact Assessment has been performed and approved.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before an updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment, checks should be performed to ensure that limitations of security controls are documented.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before an updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment, checks should be performed to ensure that performance and capacity requirements can be met and support organizations have the capacity to maintain the information system.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before an updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment, checks should be performed to ensure that development problems have been resolved successfully.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before an updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment, checks should be performed to ensure that the effects on existing operational information systems are known; and ,.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before an updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment, checks should be performed to ensure that arrangements for fall-back have been established if the updated or new information system fails to function as intended.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before the updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment communicate changes to users who may be affected by the change.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before the updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment error recovery and restart procedures should be established.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before the updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment business continuity plans should be developed or updated.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before the updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment operating procedures should be tested.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before the updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment users should be educated to use the information system correctly and securely.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Before the updated or new information system is implemented into the operational environment computer operators/system administrators should be trained in how to run the information system correctly and securely.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - The installation process should include validating the load or conversion of data files.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - The installation process should include installing executable code only, and not source code.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - The installation process should include providing ongoing technical support.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - The installation process should include implementing new or revised procedures/documentation.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - The installation process should include discontinuing old software, procedures and documentation.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - The installation process should include arranging for fall-back in the event of failure.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - The installation process should include informing the individuals involved of their roles and responsibilities.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - The installation process should include transferring responsibility for the information system from development teams to operational teams to ensure segregation of duties• Recording  installation activity.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Post-implementation reviews should include the efficiency, effectiveness and cost of security control.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.1 a) - Post-implementation reviews should include lessons learned and scope for improvements of security controls• Security incidents and mitigation.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.2 a) - Information Owners must implement procedures to ensure that sensitive or personal data from operational information systems is not used as test data.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.2 a) - Information Owners must implement procedures to ensure that using test data extracted from operational information systems must be authorized and logged to provide an audit trail.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.2 a) - Information Owners must implement procedures to ensure that test data is protected with controls appropriate to the security classification of the information and information system.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.2 a) - Information Owners must implement procedures to ensure that data from operational information systems is removed from the test environment once testing is complete.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.2 a) - Where personal or sensitive data is used for testing purposes, sensitive details and content should be removed, depersonalized or modified beyond recognition.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.2 a) - Output from test systems should be labelled “test?.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement procedures to control access to program source code for information systems to ensure that program source code is isolated and stored separately from operational information systems.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement procedures to control access to program source code for information systems to ensure that privileged users access is defined and monitored.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement procedures to control access to program source code for information systems to ensure that a change control process is implemented to manage updating of program source libraries and associated items.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.4.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement procedures to control access to program source code for information systems to ensure that program source code contained on any media must be protected• Accesses and changes to program source libraries are logged.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.1 - Changes to software must be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.1 - The doer of this section should ensure that information systems are not compromised from unauthorized changes to software.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.1 a) - Information Owners must implement a change control process during development which includes requiring that change requests originate from authorized personnel.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.1 a) - Information Owners must implement a change control process during development which includes requiring that proposed changes are reviewed and assessed for impact• Logging  all requests for change.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.1 b) - Information Owners must implement a change control process during the maintenance phase including requiring that change requests originate from authorized personnel.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.1 b) - Information Owners must implement a change control process during the maintenance phase including performing an impact assessment considering items such as the System Security Plan and proposed modifications.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.1 b) - Information Owners must implement a change control process during the maintenance phase including documenting fallback plans.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.1 b) - Information Owners must implement a change control process during the maintenance phase including documenting approval of changes proposed prior to the commencement of the work.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.1 b) - Information Owners must implement a change control process during the maintenance phase including documenting the acceptance tests and approval of the results of acceptance testing.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.1 b) - Information Owners must implement a change control process during the maintenance phase including updating the System Security Plan and other system, operations and user documentation with the details of changes in accordance with records management policy.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.1 b) - Information Owners must implement a change control process during the maintenance phase including maintaining version control for all changes to the software• Logging all requests for change.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.2 a) - Information Custodians must notify information system Information Owners and other affected parties of operating system changes to allow sufficient time for the review and testing of information systems prior to implementation.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.2 a) - Information Custodians must notify information system Information Owners and other affected parties of operating system changes to allow review of System Security Plans to ensure information systems will not be compromised by the change.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.2 a) - Information Custodians must notify information system Information Owners and other affected parties of operating system changes to allow information system testing with the changes to the operating system in a separate (i.e.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 - Modification of commercial-off-the-shelf software is limited to essential changes that are strictly controlled and documented.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 - The doer of this section should reduce the risk of information system functionality loss.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 a) - business requirement.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 a) - This requirement must be documented and approved by the Information Owner and Information Custodian.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 a) - If changes to COTS software are required, the Information Owners and Information Custodians must determine the effect the change will have on the security controls in the software.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 a) - If changes to COTS software are required, the Information Owners and Information Custodians must determine if consent of the vendor is required.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 a) - If changes to COTS software are required, the Information Owners and Information Custodians must determine if the required functionality is included in a new version of the software.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 a) - If changes to COTS software are required, the Information Owners and Information Custodians must determine if government will become responsible for maintenance of the software as a result of the change.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 a) - If changes are made to COTS software the original software must be kept unaltered and the changes must be logged and documented, including a detailed technical description.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 a) - If changes are made to COTS software the original software must be kept unaltered and the changes must be applied to a copy of the original software.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 a) - If changes are made to COTS software the original software must be kept unaltered and the changes must be tested and reviewed to ensure that the modified software continues to operate as intended.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.3 b) - A software update management process must be maintained for COTS software to ensure the most up-to-date approved patches have been applied• The version of  software is vendor supported.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement processes to reduce the opportunity for information leakage in information systems by scanning for malicious code.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement processes to reduce the opportunity for information leakage in information systems by monitoring resource usage in information systems.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement processes to reduce the opportunity for information leakage in information systems by identifying and limiting the trusted connections in and out of the government network.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement processes to reduce the opportunity for information leakage in information systems by controlling third party network connections (e.g., only authorized traffic permitted).
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement processes to reduce the opportunity for information leakage in information systems by using software that is considered to be of high integrity.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must implement processes to reduce the opportunity for information leakage in information systems by regular monitoring of information systems.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.4 a) - Scanning outbound media and communications for hidden information should be considered.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.5 - Controls must be applied to secure outsourced information system development.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.5 - The doer of this section should ensure information systems perform as expected and meet security requirements.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must consider the following when outsourcing information system development procurement policy for licensing, ownership and intellectual property rights.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must consider the following when outsourcing information system development escrow arrangements in the event of the failure of the external party.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must consider the following when outsourcing information system development testing of the information system for common vulnerabilities and malicious code.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must consider the following when outsourcing information system development rights of access for audit and certification of the quality and  accuracy of the work• Contractual requirements for quality and security functionality of the information system.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.5.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that the outsourced information system meets the defined requirements.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 - Regular assessments must be conducted to evaluate information system vulnerabilities and the management of associated risks.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 - The doer of this section should mitigate damage to government operations resulting from exploitation of published vulnerabilities.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 a) - Vulnerabilities which impact government information systems must be addressed in a timely manner to mitigate or minimize the impact on government operations.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 a) - Information Custodians must establish processes to identify, assess and respond to vulnerabilities that may impact information systems by monitoring external  sources of information on published vulnerabilities.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 a) - Information Custodians must establish processes to identify, assess and respond to vulnerabilities that may impact information systems by assessing the risk of published vulnerabilities.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 a) - Information Custodians must establish processes to identify, assess and respond to vulnerabilities that may impact information systems by testing and evaluating options to mitigate or minimize the impact of vulnerabilities.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 a) - Information Custodians must establish processes to identify, assess and respond to vulnerabilities that may impact information systems by applying corrective measures to address the vulnerabilities.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 a) - Information Custodians must establish processes to identify, assess and respond to vulnerabilities that may impact information systems by reporting to the Chief Information Security Officer on progress in responding to vulnerabilities.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must evaluate vulnerabilities and provide advice on appropriate government responses.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must monitor progress in responding to vulnerabilities.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must publish summary reports on vulnerability response activities and costs.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must when required, initiate incident response processes to address vulnerabilities.
Chapter 8 - Section 8.6.1 a) - Responsibilities for vulnerability response should be included in external party service agreements.
Chapter 9 - Section null - This chapter establishes requirements for reporting a possible breach of information security as quickly as possible.
Chapter 9 - Section null - This includes establishing procedures and  processes so that personnel understand their roles in reporting and mitigating security events.
Chapter 9 - Section null - Information security incident management policies identify mechanisms to detect and report when information security events occur and the directives for the consistent  management of such events.
Chapter 9 - Section null - The information collected about the events can be analyzed to identify trends and to direct efforts continually improve and strengthen the  information security infrastructure of the Province.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.1.1 a) - Employees must immediately report all suspected or actual information security events to the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer and to the Ministry  Chief Information Officer as required by the Information Incident Management Process.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.1.1 a) - Requirements for reporting events must be included in contracts and service  agreements.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.1.1 a) - understand their responsibilities.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.1.2 - Personnel using information systems must note and report any observed or suspected security weaknesses in those systems.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.1.2 - The doer of this section should assist in maintaining the security of information systems all personnel must report observed or suspected security weaknesses in information  systems.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.1.2 a) - Ministries must follow the Information Incident Management Process for responding to suspected or actual security weaknesses which includes reporting to the Ministry Chief Information Officer, Risk Management Branch and Government Security Office and the Office of the Government Chief Information  Officer as appropriate.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.1.2 a) - The response process must o ensure all reports are investigated and handled in a secure, confidential manner, and, o ensure the individual who  reported the weakness is advised of the outcome when the investigation is complete.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.1.2 a) - A user awareness program on information security advising personnel that o they have a responsibility to report observed or suspected weaknesses to the Ministry pointof-contact, o suspected or observed weakness must not be tried or tested, and, o weaknesses should not be discussed, or made known, except through approved reporting channels.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.1.2 a) - The reporting and response processes for all security weaknesses, threats, events and incidents should be consolidated to avoid duplication and establish a consistent  approach.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 a) - Ministries must follow the Information Incident Management Process for reporting, managing, responding to and recovering from information security incidents.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 a) - The  process must include a reporting process that includes the Ministry Chief Information Officer, Risk Management Branch and Government Security Office and the Office of the  Government Chief Information Officer as appropriate.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 a) - The  process must include when exercising incident management authority, authorized staff must notify senior management of the incident and mitigation activities at the earliest  possible time.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 a) - The  process must include staff with incident management responsibilities must be appropriately trained and qualified, and their authorization for access to live systems and data  delineated formally.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 a) - The  process must include processes are established for handling different types of information security incidents, including immediate action for containment, response escalation and  contingency plans.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 a) - The  process must include incident response processes must be documented, tested and rehearsed regularly to evaluate their effectiveness.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 b) - Information security incident investigation processes include o identification of the incident’s cause, o planning of corrective action, o implementation of corrective action to prevent recurrence, and, o reporting action taken.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 b) - Information security incident investigation processes include technology assets (e.g., PCs), audit logs, audit trails, voice mail and e-mail accounts for analysis and as potential evidence in legal proceedings.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 b) - Inappropriate use of information and technology resources requires that within 48 hours the investigating officer contact when criminal activity is suspected, the investigating officer must ensure that the appropriate law enforcement authorities are contacted.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 b) - Information Officer and Risk Management Branch and Government Security Office as part of security program management.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - The Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, is the centre of expertise and an essential capability in security incident  protection, detection, response and correction where staff assigned responsibility for Information incident management receive special training in managing crises  across the spectrum of potential incidents.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - The Information Security Branch must provide incident information to the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer and Risk Management Branch and Government  Security Office as the focus of security incident reporting, management and improvement within government.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Information sharing with stakeholder and partner  organizations, other provincial security incident response centres and national incident response centres should also be fostered.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Information security incident  response must be integrated within the broader requirements for business continuity and disaster recovery.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Integration will simplify processes, maintain consistency  and eliminate duplication.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Continuous improvement of security incident management processes includes monitoring incidents using statistical analysis of frequency, types and locations of security incidents.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Continuous improvement of security incident management processes includes analysis of incidents, responses and successful containment.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Continuous improvement of security incident management processes includes determining requirements for user awareness and training.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Continuous improvement of security incident management processes includes improving the security of information systems through monitoring and reporting.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Continuous improvement of security incident management processes includes integrating automated alarms and other security incident detection technology with user reporting, checking logs and auditing systems.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - The reporting processes for all security weaknesses, threats, events and incidents should be consolidated to avoid duplication and establish a consistent approach.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer provides guidance on how to manage information incidents  (http://www.cio.gov.bc.ca/cio/information_incident/index.page).
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Potential types of security incidents to be reported include breaches of privacy and/or confidentiality.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Potential types of security incidents to be reported include denial of service.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Potential types of security incidents to be reported include detection of network probing.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Potential types of security incidents to be reported include detection of malicious code (e.g., virus, worm, Trojan Horse).
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Potential types of security incidents to be reported include errors due to incomplete or inaccurate data.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Potential types of security incidents to be reported include outgoing network traffic not associated with typical business processing.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Potential types of security incidents to be reported include repeated attempts of unauthorized access.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Potential types of security incidents to be reported include repeated attempts to e-mail unknown internal accounts.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Potential types of security incidents to be reported include system activity not related to typical business processing• System failures and  loss of service.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Personnel who regularly ignore policy should be subject to a disciplinary process that includes notification of their manager and suspension of privileges for repeated  offences.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Security Office and Information Security Branch as part of the Information Security Program monitoring and reporting.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Services to document recommendations to improve security.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.1 c) - Service Agency.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.2 - The types, volumes and costs of information security incidents must be quantified and monitored.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.2 - The doer of this section should identify and use information security incident trends to update the Information Security Policy and supporting security processes.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.2 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for monitoring and evaluating information security incidents by using statistical analysis of incident frequency, type and location to identify trends.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.2 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for monitoring and evaluating information security incidents by ensuring incident reports and trends are used to promote continuous improvement of security policies and processes, security awareness and training programs,  and business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.2 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for monitoring and evaluating information security incidents by advising Information Owners and Information Custodians and Ministry Information Security Officers of evolving security exposures and mitigation strategies.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.2 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for monitoring and evaluating information security incidents by evaluating the effectiveness of incident management, response and reporting• Evaluating the effectiveness of information security technologies.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.2 a) - The Chief Information Security Officer must provide incident information to the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, Risk Management Branch and  Government Security Office and the Office of the Comptroller General as appropriate.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.3 - Investigations into information security incidents must ensure evidence is collected, retained and presented in conformance with the rules for collection of  evidence.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.3 - The doer of this section should ensure investigation processes preserve the integrity of evidence that may be required for legal or disciplinary action.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.3 a) - At the outset of an information security investigation it may not be known if legal or disciplinary actions will result.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.3 a) - Evidence must only be collected by individuals  authorized by the Chief Information Security Officer.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.3 a) - Evidence collection procedures must be documented by the Chief Information Security Officer.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.3 a) - Investigative processes must follow the rules of evidence to ensure relevance, admissibility and materiality.
Chapter 9 - Section 9.2.3 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians in receipt of a legal order to produce electronic evidence must immediately contact the Chief Information Security  Officer.
Chapter 10 - Section null - This chapter provides direction from a security focus for planning the resumption of business or services where a man-made or natural disaster has occurred.
Chapter 10 - Section null - Government  organizations are required to be prepared and to re-establish business or services as swiftly and smoothly as possible.
Chapter 10 - Section null - Business continuity plans include the  evaluation of security risks in line with the directions set by Emergency Management BC and government.
Chapter 10 - Section null - More comprehensive policy on business continuity management is  described in Chapter 16 of the Core Policy and Procedures Manual.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.1 - There must be a managed process to ensure that business continuity programs address information security requirements.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.1 - The doer of this section should ensure government can continue to deliver essential services despite damage, loss, or disruption of business processes.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.1 a) - Government policy on business continuity programs is defined in Core Policy and Procedures Manual 16 - Business Continuity Management.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure business continuity and recovery plans address information security requirements consistent with the  classification of the information.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.1 a) - Processes for establishing business continuity and recovery plans are detailed in the Business Continuity Management Program  Guidelines.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.1 a) - The Information Custodian must maintain the business continuity and recovery plans for information systems as part of the System Security Plan.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.2 - A risk assessment must be conducted to identify information security events that may interrupt business processes.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.2 - The doer of this section should ensure that business continuity planning processes consider information security risks.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.2 a) - The process for identifying, analyzing and evaluating risks, including information security risks, is detailed in the Business Continuity Management Program  Guidelines, section 2 - Identify, Analyze and Evaluate Risks.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.2 a) - The process for analyzing and assessing business impacts, including those for information security risks, is detailed in the Business Continuity Management Program  Guidelines, section 3 - Review Business Functions and Analyze Business Impacts.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.2 b) - The process for developing a business continuity strategy is detailed in the Business Continuity Management Program Guidelines, section 4 - Plan Mitigation Strategies  and, section 5 - Plan Business Continuity Strategies.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.3 - Business continuity plans must be developed to maintain and resume business operations to the required level following interruption to, or failure of, essential  services.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.3 - The doer of this section should ensure that essential services can be restored after the damage, loss, or disruption of business processes.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.3 a) - Requirements for business continuity plans are defined in Core Policy and Procedures Manual 16 - Business Continuity Management.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.3 a) - The process for developing and  maintaining business continuity plans is detailed in the Business Continuity Management Program Guidelines.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.4 - A government-wide framework of business continuity plans must be maintained to ensure consistent handling of information security requirements.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.4 - The doer of this section should ensure consistency and completeness of the information security components of business continuity plans.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure business continuity plans include the classification of information assets to identify critical business operations.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure business continuity plans use government-wide frameworks and processes.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.4 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure business continuity plans use information security processes which maintain approved security levels.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.4 a) - The Emergency Management BC must coordinate government-wide business continuity plans to reconcile recovery priorities, business impacts, security impacts and business  resumption processes.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.4 a) - information.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.4 a) - This responsibility includes providing expert advice to Emergency Management BC on information security aspects of business continuity plans.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.5 - Business continuity plans must be regularly exercised and updated.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.5 - The doer of this section should ensure business continuity plans are current, functional and address information security requirements.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.5 a) - Requirements for exercising business continuity plans are defined in Core Policy and Procedures Manual 16 - Business Continuity Management.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.5 a) - The process for exercising  business continuity plans are detailed in the Business Continuity Management Program Guidelines, section 8 - Train and Exercise.
Chapter 10 - Section 10.1.5 a) - Requirement for the maintenance of the business continuity plan are detailed in Business Continuity Management Program Guidelines, Section 10 - Monitor and Review.
Chapter 11 - Section null - The chapter describes requirements for verifying that information systems comply with relevant statutory, regulatory, and information security contractual clauses.
Chapter 11 - Section null - Compliance policies identify what to do to ensure that the Province is in compliance with applicable laws and policies.
Chapter 11 - Section null - Processes to monitor the extent in which  information systems follow policies include conducting security reviews, assessments and the systematic analysis of logged information.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.1 - The statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements for each information system must be explicitly defined, documented and maintained.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.1 - The doer of this section should ensure that the legal requirements of information systems are documented.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.1 a) - Information Owners are responsible for ensuring that statutory, regulatory, policy and contractual requirements of each information system are identified and documented when commencing a system development or enhancement initiative.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.1 a) - Reviewed prior to, or concurrent with, changes to legislation,  regulation or policy• Explicitly identified in contracts and service agreements, and included in o Privacy Impact Assessments, o Security Threat and Risk Assessments, o System Security Plans, o Risk Management Plans, and, o Business Continuity Plans.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.1 a) - Privacy requirements for information systems containing or handling personal information are defined in the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act Policy  and Procedures Manual and Core Policy and Procedures Manual (CPPM).
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.2 - Controls must be implemented to ensure compliance with legal, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the use of material with respect to intellectual  property rights and proprietary software licensing.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.2 - The doer of this section should protect the intellectual property rights of information and software creators and owners.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must protect intellectual property by ensuring that information and software is only acquired from reputable vendors.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must protect intellectual property by requiring the removal of unlicensed information and software from government information systems.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must protect intellectual property by informing personnel of government policies including those pertaining to appropriate use of government resources.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must protect intellectual property by ensuring licensed intellectual property is securely removed from electronic media prior to media disposition.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.2 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must protect intellectual property by complying with terms and conditions for information and software obtained from public networks (e.g., “free for personal use only?, open source).
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.3 - Government records must be protected from loss, destruction and falsification.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.3 - The doer of this section should ensure the Information Security Policy and supporting processes enable compliance with legal and policy requirements for government records.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.3 a) - The Document Disposal Act defines requirements for the disposal of government records.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.4 - Security controls must be applied to protect data and personal information in accordance with relevant legislation.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.4 - The doer of this section should ensure the Information Security Policy and supporting processes enable compliance with legislation.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.4 a) - The Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act requires personal information to be protected using ‘reasonable security measures’.
Chapter 11 - Section 12.3.3 - - Information Management and the Freedom of  Information and Protection of Privacy Act Policy and Procedures Manual.
Chapter 11 - Section 12.3.3 - The Information Security Policy includes detailed controls which enable and support the protection of government information and information systems.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.5 - Controls must be in place to deter misuse of information systems.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.5 - The doer of this section should ensure personnel do not create security exposures through unauthorized or inappropriate use of information systems.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must monitor information system usage to prevent, detect and respond to unauthorized or inappropriate use by ensuring audit logs contain sufficient detail to detect and trace inappropriate usage.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must monitor information system usage to prevent, detect and respond to unauthorized or inappropriate use by implementing processes to analyze audit logs to identify potential misuse of information systems; Implementing system rules to prevent access to undesirable  Internet sites; Implementing content inspection and filtering tools (e.g., for e-mail and web traffic); Immediately notifying personnel of detected misuse (e.g., the ‘Red Screen’ for Internet blocking).
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must monitor information system usage to prevent, detect and respond to unauthorized or inappropriate use by ensuring that security incidents are investigated in accordance with policy.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.5 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must monitor information system usage to prevent, detect and respond to unauthorized or inappropriate use by determining, in consultation with the Public Service Agency, if disciplinary action, including dismissal, cancellation of contract and/or other legal remedies  are warranted for personnel who have made unauthorized or inappropriate use of information system resources.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.5 a) - Prior to implementing information system monitoring processes Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure monitoring activities will be compliant with legal, policy and contractual requirements and obligations.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.5 a) - Prior to implementing information system monitoring processes Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure personnel are informed that specific activities may be monitored.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.5 a) - Prior to implementing information system monitoring processes Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure access to data gathered through monitoring processes is restricted on a ‘need to know’ and ‘least privilege’ basis to the fewest possible number of users.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.6 - Cryptographic controls must be used in conjunction with relevant agreements, laws and regulations.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.6 - The doer of this section should prevent inappropriate use and unregulated importing or exporting of cryptographic controls.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.6 a) - When cryptographic controls are used, Information Owners and Information Custodians must consult with the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer regarding the records management, electronic commerce, information access, privacy and  security issues prior to acquiring cryptographic controls; Ensure encrypted government information assets do not become unavailable due to unavailability or loss of cryptographic keys by implementing a process to manage  cryptographic keys as defined by the Government Chief Information Officer.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.6 a) - When cryptographic controls are used, Information Owners and Information Custodians must when acquiring cryptographic controls from outside Canada, the procurement must be from a reputable vendor who can provide reasonable assurance on the legality  of import into Canada.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.6 a) - The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer will develop and document cryptographic key management processes.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.6 a) - The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer will provide guidance and assistance to Ministries and agencies in the selection and use of cryptographic controls.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.1.6 a) - The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer will establish and publish cryptographic standards.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure security policies and processes are implemented and adhered to by conducting periodic self assessments.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 a) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure security policies and processes are implemented and adhered to by ensuring personnel receive regular information security awareness updates• Initiating independent assessments, reviews or audits to assess  compliance to policy.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 a) - When review processes indicate non-compliance with policies, Information Owners and Information Custodians must determine cause(s).
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 a) - When review processes indicate non-compliance with policies, Information Owners and Information Custodians must assess the threats and risks of non-compliant processes.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 a) - When review processes indicate non-compliance with policies, Information Owners and Information Custodians must document the marginal risks; and where required• Develop plans to implement  corrective action.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 b) - Ministries must develop an annual plan which identifies information systems scheduled for a security review in each fiscal year.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 b) - The information systems to be reviewed  in each year should be determined in conjunction with the Ministry Enterprise-wide Risk Management Plan; Endorsement by the Ministry Audit Committee Reported as part of the annual information resource management plan.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 b) - Ministries must ensure that mission critical information systems are reviewed at least every three years.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 c) - Information Owners and Information Custodians must ensure that recommendations from information incident reports are addressed.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 c) - Chief Information Security Officer may perform compliance reviews or audit of the implementation of recommendations from information incident reports, when necessary.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 c) - Ministry Chief Information Officer must ensure that Information Owners and Information Custodians support the audit activities.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 c) - When determining the review frequency for information systems consider the value of the information system as determined by a Security Threat and Risk Assessment or a Risk and Controls Review.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 c) - of previous reviews.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 c) - Internal Audit and Advisory Services, Office of the Comptroller General, should be consulted prior to issuing Requests For Proposals or contracts for independent  information security reviews or audits.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.1 c) - Self assessment tools are available from Information Security Branch, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 - Information systems must be regularly checked for compliance with security policies and standards.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 - The doer of this section should determine if technical controls meet established government standards.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 a) - Information Custodians must regularly test information system technical control compliance by using automated tools to detect network intrusion.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 a) - Information Custodians must regularly test information system technical control compliance by using automated tools to conduct penetration testing.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 a) - Information Custodians must regularly test information system technical control compliance by using automated tools to determine if information system patches have been applied.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 a) - Information Custodians must regularly test information system technical control compliance by using automated tools to confirm that system technical controls have been implemented and are functioning as designed.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 a) - Information Custodians must regularly test information system technical control compliance by using automated tools to perform technical compliance checking as part of the system change management process to verify that unauthorized connections and/or systems changes have not  been made.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 b) - Managers responsible for technical compliance checking and Information Custodians must ensure that information Owners and operations personnel are consulted prior  to initiating tests.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 b) - Managers responsible for technical compliance checking and Information Custodians must ensure that the Chief Information Security Officer is notified prior to testing to prevent triggering false security alarms from the infrastructure.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 b) - Managers responsible for technical compliance checking and Information Custodians must ensure that automated testing of operational systems is conducted by personnel authorized by the Chief Information Security Officer.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 b) - Ministries must consult with the Chief Information Security Officer prior to issuing Requests For Proposal or contracts for technical compliance checking.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 c) - Managers responsible for technical compliance checking and Information Custodians must assess results of testing and promptly develop action plans to investigate and mitigate identified exposures in consultation with the Ministry Information  Security Officer.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 c) - Managers responsible for technical compliance checking and Information Custodians must provide Information Owners and the Chief Information Security Officer with copies of test results and action plans.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 c) - Managers responsible for technical compliance checking and Information Custodians must provide the Chief Information Security Officer with the internal or external audit reports immediately upon receipt.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 c) - Managers responsible for technical compliance checking and Information Custodians must maintain records, in accordance with established records schedules, of tests for subsequent review by internal and external auditors.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 c) - The Chief Information Security Officer should develop and maintain testing processes for authorizing/conducting tests, storing results and building on previous testing experience.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.2.2 c) - The Chief Information Security Officer should provide summarized quarterly reports to the Government Chief Information Officer on the status and results of testing.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.1 - Audit requirements and activities involving checks on operational systems must be planned and approved to minimize disruption to business processes.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.1 - The doer of this section should prevent compliance checking activities from causing unplanned disruptions to operational information systems.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.1 a) - Prior to commencing compliance checking activities such as audits, risk and controls reviews, monitoring or security reviews of operational information systems, the  Manager responsible for the compliance checking activity, Information Owners and Information Custodians must define, document and approve the activities by determining the scope, duration and level of detail of the compliance checking activity.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.1 a) - Prior to commencing compliance checking activities such as audits, risk and controls reviews, monitoring or security reviews of operational information systems, the  Manager responsible for the compliance checking activity, Information Owners and Information Custodians must define, document and approve the activities by limiting access rights to operational information systems for compliance checking personnel to “read only?.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.1 a) - Determining handling requirements for copies of files made by compliance checking personnel including o establishing a separate environment for the analysis  of files, o restricting access to those files, o logging the accesses made to those files, and, o erasing files at the conclusion of compliance checking activities unless needed to support report findings.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.1 a) - by o notifying the Chief Information Security Officer prior to compliance checking activities to prevent triggering false security alarms from the infrastructure,  and, o scheduling tests to minimize disruption.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.1 a) - by submitting the reports of penetration tests or vulnerability assessments to the Chief Information Security Officer immediately upon receipt.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.1 a) - by requiring that personnel conducting compliance checking activities maintain a segregation of duty from the operational information systems being checked.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.1 a) - Guidance for compliance checking activities can be obtained from the Chief Information Security Officer; and/or,.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.2 - Guidance for compliance checking activities can be obtained from access to system audit tools must be controlled to prevent misuse or compromise.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.2 - The doer of this section should minimize risks to information and information systems from inappropriate use of audit tools.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.2 a) - Managers responsible for compliance checking activities and Information Custodians must control the use of audit tools by restricting access to authorized personnel who have a need-to-know.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.2 a) - Managers responsible for compliance checking activities and Information Custodians must control the use of audit tools by installing or enabling specialized audit tools for the duration required by the compliance checking activity.
Chapter 11 - Section 11.3.2 a) - Managers responsible for compliance checking activities and Information Custodians must control the use of audit tools by removing information system access at the conclusion of the compliance checking activities• Notifying the Chief Information Security Officer prior  to the use of audit tools.
